Heeeeeeeyyy!!
I see an annoying girl running toward me from the distance, waving her arms in the air like she's totally oblivious to any attention she might draw to herself.
That girl is Sayori, my neighbor and good friend since we were children.
You know, the kind of friend you'd never see yourself making today, but it just kind of works out because you've known each other for so long?
We used to walk to school together on days like this, but starting around high school she would oversleep more and more frequently, and I would get tired of waiting up.
But if she's going to chase after me like this, I almost feel better off running away.
However, I just sigh and idle in front of the crosswalk and let Sayori catch up to me.
Haaahhh...haaahhh...
I overslept again!
But I caught you this time!
Maybe, but only because I decided to stop and wait for you.
Eeehhhhh, you say that like you were thinking about ignoring me!
That's mean, [player]!
Well, if people stare at you for acting weird then I don't want them to think we're a couple or something.
Fine, fine.
But you did wait for me, after all.
I guess you don't have it in you to be mean even if you want to~
Whatever you say, Sayori...
Ehehe~
We cross the street together and make our way to school.
As we draw near, the streets become increasingly speckled with other students making their daily commute.
By the way, [player]...
Have you decided on a club to join yet?
A club?
I told you already, I'm really not interested in joining any clubs.
I haven't been looking, either.
Eh? That's not true!
You told me you would join a club this year!
Did I...?
I'm sure it's possible that I did, in one of our many conversations where I dismissively go along with whatever she's going on about.
Sayori likes to worry a little too much about me, when I'm perfectly content just getting by on the average while spending my free time on games and anime.
Uh-huh!
I was talking about how I'm worried that you won't learn how to socialize or have any skills before college.
Your happiness is really important to me, you know!
And I know you're happy now, but I'd die at the thought of you becoming a NEET in a few years because you're not used to the real world!
You trust me, right?
Don't make me keep worrying about you...
Alright, alright...
I'll look at a few clubs if it makes you happy.
No promises, though.
Will you at least promise me you'll try a little?
Yeah, I guess I'll promise you that.
Yaay~!
Why do I let myself get lectured by such a carefree girl?
More than that, I'm surprised I even let myself relent to her.
I guess seeing her worry so much about me makes me want to ease her mind at least a little bit - even if she does exaggerate everything inside of her head.
The school day is as ordinary as ever, and it's over before I know it.
After I pack up my things, I stare blankly at the wall, looking for an ounce of motivation.
Clubs...
Sayori wants me to check out some clubs.
I guess I have no choice but to start with the anime club...
Hellooo?
Sayori...?
Sayori must have come into the classroom while I was spacing out.
I look around and realize that I'm the only one left in the classroom.
I thought I'd catch you coming out of the classroom, but I saw you just sitting here and spacing out, so I came in.
Honestly, you're even worse than me sometimes... I'm impressed!
You don't need to wait up for me if it's going to make you late to your own club.
Well, I thought you might need some encouragement, so I thought, you know...
Know what?
Well, that you could come to my club!
Sayori...
Yeah??
...There is no way I'm going to your club.
Eeeehhhhh?! Meanie!
Sayori is vice president of the Literature Club.
Not that I was ever aware that she had any interest in literature.
In fact, I'm 99%% sure she only did it because she thought it would be fun to help start a new club.
Since she was the first one to show interest after the one who proposed the club, she inherited the title "Vice President".
That said, my interest in literature is guaranteed to be even less.
Yeah. I'm going to the anime club.
C'mon, please?
Why do you care so much, anyway?
Well...
I kind of told the club yesterday I would bring in a new member...
And Natsuki made cupcakes and everything...
Ehehe...
Don't make promises you can't keep!
I can't tell if Sayori is really that much of an airhead, or if she's so cunning as to have planned all of this out.
I let out a long sigh.
Fine... I'll stop by for a cupcake, okay?
Yes! Let's go~!
And thus, today marks the day I sold my soul for a cupcake.
I dejectedly follow Sayori across the school and upstairs - a section of the school I rarely visit, being generally used for third-year classes and activities.
Sayori, full of energy, swings open the classroom door.
Everyone! The new member is here~!
I told you, don't call me a 'new member--'
Eh? I glance around the room.
Welcome to the Literature Club. It's a pleasure meeting you.
Sayori always says nice things about you.
Seriously? You brought a boy?
Way to kill the atmosphere.
Ah, [player]! What a nice surprise!
Welcome to the club!
...
All words escape me in this situation.
This club...
{i}...is full of incredibly cute girls!!{/i}
What are you looking at?
If you want to say something, say it.
S-Sorry...
Natsuki...
Hmph.
The girl with the sour attitude, whose name is apparently Natsuki, is one I don't recognize.
Her small figure makes me think she's probably a first-year.
She is also the one who made cupcakes, according to Sayori.
You can just ignore her when she gets moody~
Sayori says that quietly into my ear, then turns back toward the other girls.
Anyway! This is Natsuki, always full of energy.
And this is Yuri, the smartest in the club!
D-Don't say things like that...
Yuri, who appears comparably more mature and timid, seems to have a hard time keeping up with people like Sayori and Natsuki.
Ah... Well, it's nice to meet both of you.
And it sounds like you already know Monika, is that right?
That's right.
It's great to see you again, [player].
Monika smiles sweetly.
We do know each other - well, we rarely talked, but we were in the same class last year.
Monika was probably the most popular girl in class - smart, beautiful, athletic.
Basically, completely out of my league.
So, having her smile at me so genuinely feels a little...
Y-You too, Monika.
Come sit down, [player]! We made room for you at the table, so you can sit next to me or Monika.
I'll get the cupcakes~
Hey! I made them, I'll get them!
Sorry, I got a little too excited~
Then, how about I make some tea as well?
The girls have a few desks arranged to form a table.
As Sayori mentioned, it's been widened so that there is one space next to Monika and one space next to Sayori.
Natsuki and Yuri walk over to the corner of the room, where Natsuki grabs a wrapped tray and Yuri opens the closet.
Still feeling awkward, I take a seat next to Sayori.
Natsuki proudly marches back to the table, tray in hand.
Okaaay, are you ready?
...Ta-daa!
Uwooooah!
Natsuki lifts the foil off the tray to reveal a dozen white, fluffy cupcakes decorated to look like little cats.
The whiskers are drawn with icing, and little pieces of chocolate were used to make ears.
So cuuuute~!
I had no idea you were so good at baking, Natsuki!
Ehehe. Well, you know.
Just hurry and take one!
Sayori grabs one first, then Monika. I follow.
It's delicious!
Sayori talks with her mouth full and has already managed to get icing on her face.
I turn the cupcake around in my fingers, looking for the best angle to take a bite.
Natsuki is quiet.
I can't help but notice her sneaking glances in my direction.
Is she waiting for me to take a bite?
I finally bite down.
The icing is sweet and full of flavor - I wonder if she made it herself.
This is really good.
Thank you, Natsuki.
W-Why are you thanking me? It's not like I...!
{i}(Haven't I heard this somewhere before...?){/i}
...Made them for you or anything.
Eh? I thought you technically did. Sayori said--
Well, maybe!
But not for, y-you know, {i}you!{/i} Dummy...
Alright, alright...
I give up on Natsuki's weird logic and dismiss the conversation.
Yuri returns to the table, carrying a tea set.
She carefully places a teacup in front of each of us before setting down the teapot next to the cupcake tray.
You keep a whole tea set in this classroom?
Don't worry, the teachers gave us permission.
After all, doesn't a hot cup of tea help you enjoy a good book?
Ah... I-I guess...
Ehehe, don't let yourself get intimidated, Yuri's just trying to impress you.
Eh?! T-That's not...
Insulted, Yuri looks away.
I meant that, you know...
I believe you.
Well, tea and reading might not be a pastime for me, but I at least enjoy tea.
I'm glad...
Yuri faintly smiles to herself in relief.
Monika raises an eyebrow, then smiles at me.
So, what made you consider the Literature Club?
Um...
I was afraid of this question.
Something tells me I shouldn't tell Monika that I was practically dragged here by Sayori.
Well, I haven't joined any clubs yet, and Sayori seemed really happy here, so...
That's okay! Don't be embarrassed!
We'll make sure you feel right at home, okay?
As president of the Literature Club, it's my duty to make the club fun and exciting for everyone!
Monika, I'm surprised.
How come you decided to start your own club?
You could probably be a board member for any of the major clubs.
Weren't you a leader of the debate club last year?
Ahaha, well, you know...
To be honest, I can't stand all of the politics around the major clubs.
It feels like nothing but arguing about the budget and publicity and how to prepare for events...
I'd much rather take something I personally enjoy and make something special out of it.
And if it encourages others to get into literature, then I'm fulfilling that dream!
Monika really is a great leader!
Yuri also nods in agreement.
Then I'm surprised there aren't more people in the club yet.
It must be hard to start a new club.
You could put it that way.
Not many people are very interested in putting out all the effort to start something brand new...
Especially when it's something that doesn't grab your attention, like literature.
You have to work hard to convince people that you're both fun and worthwhile.
But it makes school events, like the festival, that much more important.
I'm confident that we can all really grow this club before we graduate!
Right, everyone?
Yeah!
We'll do our best.
You know it!
Everyone enthusiastically agrees.
Such different girls, all interested in the same goal...
Monika must have worked really hard just to find these three.
Maybe that's why they were all so delighted by the idea of a new member joining.
Though I still don't really know if I can keep up with their level of enthusiasm about literature...
So, [player], what kinds of things do you like to read?
Well... Ah...
Considering how little I've read these past few years, I don't really have a good way of answering that.
...Manga...
I mutter quietly to myself, half-joking.
Natsuki's head suddenly perks up.
It looks like she wants to say something, but she keeps quiet.
N-Not much of a reader, I guess...
...Well, that can change...
What am I saying?
I spoke without thinking after seeing Yuri's sad smile.
Anyway, what about you, Yuri?
Well, let's see...
Yuri traces the rim of her teacup with her finger.
My favorites are usually novels that build deep and complex fantasy worlds.
The level of creativity and craftsmanship behind them is amazing to me.
And telling a good story in such a foreign world is equally impressive.
Yuri goes on, clearly passionate about her reading.
She seemed so reserved and timid since the moment I walked in, but it's obvious by the way her eyes light up that she finds her comfort in the world of books, not people.
But you know, I like a lot of things.
Stories with deep psychological elements usually immerse me as well.
Isn't it amazing how a writer can so deliberately take advantage of your own lack of imagination to completely throw you for a loop?
Anyway, I've been reading a lot of horror lately...
Ah, I read a horror book once...
I desperately grasp something I can relate to at the minimal level.
At this rate, Yuri might as well be having a conversation with a rock.
Really? I wouldn't have expected that, Yuri.
For someone as gentle as you...
I guess you could say that.
But if a story makes me think, or takes me to another world, then I really can't put it down.
Surreal horror is often very successful at changing the way you look at the world, if only for a brief moment.
Ugh, I hate horror...
Oh? Why's that?
Well, I just...
Natsuki's eyes dart over to me for a split second.
Never mind.
That's right, you usually like to write about cute things, don't you, Natsuki?
W-What?
What gives you that idea?
You left a piece of scrap paper behind last club meeting.
It looked like you were working on a poem called--
Don't say it out loud!!
And give that back!
Fine, fine~
Ehehe, your cupcakes, your poems...
Everything you do is just as cute as you are~
Sayori sidles up behind Natsuki and puts her hands on her shoulders.
{i}I'm not cute!!{/i}
Natsuki, you write your own poems?
Eh? Well, I guess sometimes.
Why do you care?
I think that's impressive.
Why don't you share them sometime?
N-No!
Natsuki averts her eyes.
You wouldn't...like them...
Ah...not a very confident writer yet?
I understand how Natsuki feels.
Sharing that level of writing takes more than just confidence.
The truest form of writing is writing to oneself.
You must be willing to open up to your readers, exposing your vulnerabilities and showing even the deepest reaches of your heart.
Do you have writing experience too, Yuri?
Maybe if you share some of your work, you can set an example and help Natsuki feel comfortable enough to share hers.
...
I guess it's the same for Yuri...
Aww... I wanted to read everyone's poems...
We all sit in silence for a moment.
Okay!
I have an idea, everyone~
...?
Natsuki and Yuri look quizzically at Monika.
Let's all go home and write a poem of our own!
Then, next time we meet, we'll all share them with each other.
That way, everyone is even!
U-Um...
...
Yeaaah! Let's do it!
Plus, now that we have a new member, I think it will help us all get a little more comfortable with each other, and strengthen the bond of the club.
Isn't that right, [player]?
Monika smiles warmly at me once again.
Hold on...there's still one problem.
Eh? What's that?
Now that we're back to the original topic of me joining the club, I bluntly come forth with what's been on my mind the entire time.
I never said I would join this club!
Sayori may have convinced me to stop by, but I never made any decision.
I still have other clubs to look at, and...um...
I lose my train of thought.
All four girls stare back at me with dejected eyes.
B-But...
I'm sorry, I thought...
Hmph.
[player]...
Y-You all...
I...I'm defenseless against these girls.
How am I supposed to make a clear-headed decision when it's like this?
That is, if writing poems is the price I need to pay in order to spend every day with these beautiful girls...
...Right.
Okay, I've decided, then.
I'll join the Literature Club.
One by one, the girls' eyes light up.
Yesss! I'm so happyyy~
Sayori wraps her arms around me, jumping up and down.
H-Hey--
You really did scare me for a moment...
If you really just came for the cupcakes, I would be super pissed.
Then that makes it official!
Welcome to the Literature Club!
Ah...thanks, I guess.
Okay, everyone!
I think with that, we can officially end today's meeting on a good note.
Everyone remember tonight's assignment:
Write a poem to bring to the next meeting, so we can all share!
Monika looks over at me once more.
[player], I look forward to seeing how you express yourself.
Ehehe~
Y-Yeah...
Can I really impress the class star Monika with my mediocre writing skills?
I already feel the anxiety welling up inside me.
Meanwhile, the girls continue to chit-chat as Yuri and Natsuki clean up their food.
Hey, [player], since we're already here, do you want to walk home together?
That's right - Sayori and I never walk home together anymore because she always stayed after school for clubs.
Sure, might as well.
Yaay~
With that, the two of us depart the clubroom and make our way home.
The whole way, my mind wanders back and forth between the four girls:
Sayori,
Natsuki,
Yuri,
and, of course, Monika.
Will I really be happy spending every day after school in a literature club?
Perhaps I'll have the chance to grow closer to one of these girls...
Alright!
I'll just need to make the most of my circumstances, and I'm sure good fortune will find me.
And I guess that starts with writing a poem tonight...
...
...
W-What...
...
This...
What is this...?
Oh no...
No...
This can't be it.
This can't be all there is.
What is this?
What am I?
Make it stop!
PLEASE MAKE IT STOP!
Hi again, [player]!
Glad to see you didn't run away on us. Hahaha!
Nah, don't worry.
This might be a little strange for me, but I at least keep my word.
Well, I'm back at the Literature Club.
I was the last to come in, so everyone else is already hanging out.
Thanks for keeping your promise, [player].
I hope this isn't too overwhelming of a commitment for you.
Making you dive headfirst into literature when you're not accustomed to it...
Oh, come on! Like he deserves any slack.
Sayori told me you didn't even want to join any clubs this year.
And last year, too!
I don't know if you plan to just come here and hang out, or what...
But if you don't take us seriously, then you won't see the end of it.
Natsuki, you certainly have a big mouth for someone who keeps her manga collection in the clubroom.
M-M-M...!!
Natsuki finds herself stuck between saying "Monika" and "Manga".
Manga is literature!!
Swiftly defeated, Natsuki plops back into her seat.
Don't worry, guys~
[player] always gives it his best as long as he's having fun.
He helps me with busywork without me even asking.
Like cooking, cleaning my room...
How dependable...
Sayori, that's because your room is so messy it's distracting.
And you almost set your house on fire once.
Is that so... Ehehe...
You two are really good friends, aren't you?
I might be a little jealous...
How come? You and [player] can become good friends too!
U-Um...
S-Sayori--
Hmm?
...
As usual, Sayori seems oblivious to the weird situation she just put me into.
Oh, oh! Yuri even brought you something today, you know~
W-Wait! Sayori...
Eh? Me?
Um... Not really...
Don't be shy~
It's really nothing...
What is it?
N-Never mind!
Sayori made it sound like a big deal when it's really not...
Uuuuh, what do I do...
Eh? I'm sorry, Yuri, I wasn't thinking...
I guess that means it's up to me to rescue this situation...
Hey, don't worry about it.
First of all, I wasn't expecting anything in the first place.
So any nice gesture from you is a pleasant surprise.
It'll make me happy no matter what.
I-Is that so...
Yeah. I won't make it a big deal if you don't want it to be.
Alright...
Well, here.
Yuri reaches into her bag and pulls out a book.
I didn't want you to feel left out...
So I picked out a book that I thought you might enjoy.
It's a short read, so it should keep your attention, even if you don't usually read.
And we could, you know...
Discuss it...if you wanted...
Th-This is...
How is this girl accidentally being so cute?
She even picked out a book she thinks I'll like, despite me not reading much...
Yuri, thank you! I'll definitely read this!
I enthusiastically take the book.
Phew...
Well, you can read it at your own pace.
I look forward to hearing what you think.
Now that everyone's settled in, I expected Monika to kick off some scheduled activities for the club.
But that doesn't seem to be the case.
Sayori and Monika are having a cheery conversation in the corner.
Yuri's face is already buried in a book.
I can't help but notice her intense expression, like she was waiting for this chance.
Meanwhile, Natsuki is rummaging around in the closet.
By the way, did you remember to write a poem last night?
Y-Yeah...
My relaxation ends.
I can't believe I agreed to do something so embarrassing.
I couldn't really find much inspiration, since I've never really done this before.
Well, now that everyone's ready, why don't you find someone to share with?
I can't wait~!
Sayori and Monika enthusiastically pull out their poems.
Sayori's is on a wrinkled sheet of loose leaf torn from a spiral notebook.
On the other hand, Monika wrote hers in a composition notebook.
I can already see Monika's pristine handwriting from where I sit.
Natsuki and Yuri reluctantly comply as well, reaching into their bags.
I do the same, myself.
Phew...
I guess that's everyone.
I glance around the room.
That was a little more stressful than I anticipated.
It's as if everyone is judging me for my mediocre writing abilities...
Even if they're just being nice, there's no way my poems can stand up to theirs.
This is a literature club, after all.
I sigh.
I guess that's what I ended up getting myself into.
Across the room, Sayori and Monika are happily chatting.
My eyes land on Yuri and Natsuki.
They gingerly exchange sheets of paper, sharing their respective poems.
As they read in tandem, I watch each of their expressions change.
Natsuki's eyebrows furrow in frustration.
Meanwhile, Yuri smiles sadly.
{i}(What's with this language...?){/i}
Eh?
Um...did you say something?
Oh, it's nothing.
Natsuki dismissively returns the poem to the desk with one hand.
I guess you could say it's fancy.
Ah-- Thanks...
Yours is...cute...
Cute?
Did you completely miss the symbolism or something?
It's clearly about the feeling of giving up.
How can that be cute?
I-I know that!
I just meant...
The language, I guess...
I was trying to say something nice...
Eh?
You mean you have to try that hard to come up with something nice to say?
Thanks, but it really didn't come out nice at all!
Um...
Well, I do have a couple suggestions...
Hmph.
If I was looking for suggestions, I would have asked someone who actually liked it.
Which people {i}did{/i}, by the way.
Sayori liked it.
And [player] did, too!
So based on that, I'll gladly give you some suggestions of my own.
First of all--
Excuse me...
I appreciate the offer, but I've spent a long time establishing my writing style.
I don't expect it to change anytime soon, unless of course I come across something particularly inspiring.
Which I haven't yet.
Nn...!
And [player] liked my poem too, you know.
He even told me he was impressed by it.
Natsuki suddenly stands up.
Oh?
I didn't realize you were so invested in trying to impress our new member, Yuri.
E-Eh?!
That's not what I...!
Uu...
You...You're just...
Yuri stands up as well.
Maybe you're just jealous that [player] appreciates my advice more than he appreciated yours!
Huh! And how do you know he didn't appreciate {i}my{/i} advice more?
Are you that full of yourself?
I...!
No...
If I was full of myself...
...I would deliberately go out of my way to make everything I do overly cutesy!
Uuuuuu...!
U-Um!!
Is everyone okay...?
Well, you know what?!
I wasn't the one whose boobs magically grew a size bigger as soon as [player] started showing up!!
N-Natsuki!!
Um, Natsuki, that's a little--
This doesn't involve you!
I-I don't like fighting, guys...!
Suddenly, both girls turn towards me, as if they just noticed I was standing there.
[player]...!
She-- She's just trying to make me look bad...!
That's not true!
She started it!
If she could get over herself and learn to appreciate that {i}simple{/i} writing is more effective...
Then this wouldn't have happened in the first place!
What's the point in making your poems all convoluted for no reason?
The meaning should jump out at the reader, not force them to have to figure it out.
Help me explain that to her, [player]!
W-Wait!
There's a reason we have so many deep and expressive words in our language!
It's the only way to convey complex feelings and meaning the most effectively.
Avoiding them is not only unnecessarily limiting yourself...it's also a waste!
You understand that, right, [player]?
Um...!
Well??
...
How did I get dragged into this in the first place?!
It's not like I know anything about writing...
But whomever I agree with, they'll probably think more highly of me!
Okay, everyone!
It's just about time for us to leave.
How did you all feel about sharing poems?
It was a lot of fun!
Well, I'd say it was worth it.
It was alright. Well, mostly.
[player], how about you?
...Yeah, I'd say the same.
It was a neat thing to talk about with everyone.
Awesome!
In that case, we'll do the same thing tomorrow.
And maybe you learned something from your friends, too.
So your poems will turn out even better!
...
I think to myself.
I did learn a little more about the kinds of poems everyone likes.
With any luck, that means I can at least do a better job impressing those I want to impress.
I nod to myself with newfound determination.
[player]!
Ready to walk home?
Sure, let's go.
Ehehe~
Sayori beams at me.
It truly has been a while since Sayori and I have spent this much time together.
I can't really say I'm not enjoying it, either.
Sayori...
About what happened earlier...
Eh? What do you mean?
You know, between Yuri and Natsuki.
Does that kind of thing happen often?
No, no, no!
That's really the first time I've seen them fight like that...
I promise they're both wonderful people.
You don't... You don't hate them, do you??
No, I don't hate them!
I just wanted your opinion, that's all.
I can see why they'd make good friends with you.
Phew...
You know, [player]...
It's nice that I get to spend time with you in the club.
But I think seeing you get along with everyone is what makes me the happiest.
And I think everyone really likes you, too!
That's--!
Ehehe~
Every day is going to be so much fun~
Sigh...
It looks like Sayori still hasn't caught onto the kind of situation I'm in.
Sure, being friends with everyone is nice, but...
...Does it really need to stop there?
We'll just have to see what the future holds, Sayori.
I pat Sayori on the shoulder.
I said that more to myself than to her, but it's easy to use Sayori as an internal monologue sometimes.
Okay~!
Yeah...
Let's do this!
Um...
Yuri!
You're really talented.
Eh? W-Well...
But Natsuki has a point!
I think that...
I wrack my brain in an attempt to back myself up.
I think that conveying feelings with few words...
Can be just as impressive as well!
It lets the reader's imagination take over.
And Natsuki's poem did a really good job at that!
...Yeah!!
It did, didn't it?!
Ahah!
Shows how much {i}you{/i} know!
T-That's not...
Natsuki...
I think that's enough.
Huh?
Me?
But she was so mean to me...!
Natsuki's voice whines.
Look...
What we talked about yesterday was right.
Writing is a really personal thing.
And sharing it can definitely be hard.
It looks like we learned that today.
Even small criticism can lead to something pretty heated.
I glance over my shoulder.
Sayori is nodding vigorously.
Yeah, so...
You don't need to feel threatened.
You're a great writer, Natsuki.
Ah--
Natsuki's voice gets caught in surprise.
...Thanks for noticing.
She finally mutters that, barely audible.
Yuri...
...?
Yuri looks at me dejectedly.
With a face like that, I can't help but feel bad for her as well.
I'm sure that Natsuki didn't mean everything she said.
So you don't need to feel threatened, either.
Well...
If you say so...
Hey...!
It's not like you need to apologize {i}for{/i} me, [player].
Sheesh.
Natsuki takes a breath.
I...
The thing about...
Uu...
Natsuki glances around the room.
{i}Would everyone stop staring at me??{/i}
Unsurprisingly, Natsuki has a harder time with it than she boasted.
Sayori and Monika look away.
Hmph.
Anyway...!
The thing about your boobs. I didn't mean it, okay?
That's all.
Natsuki looks away, avoiding eye contact with anyone.
Yeah! You're naturally beautiful, Yuri!!
Sayori?!
...
I-I'll go make some tea...
Ehh?
I was just trying to help!
I'm sure she appreciated it, Sayori.
I pat Sayori on the shoulder.
Well, now that we're past that...
Everyone's read each other's poems, right?
I hope that it was worthwhile for everyone!
Especially you, [player]!
And to be honest...
It's a nice change of pace from the lazing around we got a little too used to.
Ahahaha!
Ah, so my joining the club was responsible for ruining the atmosphere...
No, not at all, not at all!
There's still time before we go home.
So we'll all relax for a bit.
Of course, besides chatting, we do literature-related things in the clubroom...
So maybe you can take the chance to pick up a book, or do some writing.
After all, that's what the club is for!
I disagree, Monika!
Eh? About what?
That's not the most important thing about the literature club!
The most important thing...
Is having fun!
Ahaha, of course...
Well, I guess that's why you're the Vice President, Sayori.
Ehehe...
In the end, though, Monika's right.
Being in the Literature Club probably means I can't spend all my time doing nothing.
But in the end...
...I guess it's been worth it so far.
Natsuki.
You're right that I liked your poem.
See??
Wait!
That's not an excuse for you to be so mean!
You shouldn't pick a fight just because someone's opinion is different.
That's not what happened at all!
Yuri wouldn't even take my poem seriously!
Mm...
I understand.
Yuri.
Eh?
You're a seriously talented writer.
It's no secret that I was impressed.
W-Well, that's...
But here's the thing.
No matter how simple or refined someone's writing style is...
They're still putting feelings into it, and it becomes something really personal.
That's why Natsuki felt threatened when you said her poem was cute.
I...see...
I didn't notice that I...
I-I'm sorry...
Uuu...
But Natsuki, you took it way too far!
Yuri means well, and if you just told her how you felt...
Then this wouldn't have happened in the first place.
Are you kidding?
That's exactly what I did!
It was {i}her{/i} that--
Natsuki, I think that's enough.
You both said some things that you didn't mean.
Yuri apologized. Don't you think you should, too?
Nnn...!
Natsuki clenches her fists.
In the end, nobody has taken her side.
She's trapped, at this point being defiant only because she can't handle the pressure.
I end up even feeling bad for her.
U-Um!
Sometimes when I'm hurt...
It helps to take a walk and clear my head!
Sayori, she doesn't need to--
You know what?
I'm going to do that.
It'll spare me from having to look at all your faces right now.
Without warning, Natsuki snatches her own poem up from the desk and storms out.
On her way out, she crumples up the poem with her hands and throws it in the trash.
Natsuki...
She really didn't need to do that...
I look across the room.
Yuri has her chin buried in her hands while she stares down at her desk.
I gingerly approach her and sit in an adjacent chair.
Sigh...
Everything alright?
I'm so embarrassed...
I can't believe I acted like that.
You probably hate me now...
No--Yuri!
How could anyone not have gotten frustrated after being treated like that?
You handled it as well as anyone could.
I don't think any less of you.
Well...
...Alright, I believe you.
Thanks, [player]. You're too kind.
I'm thankful to have you a part of this club now.
Er-- It's nothing.
One more thing...
Um, that one thing that Natsuki said...
About...you know...
I would never do anything...so shameful...
So...
...Eh?
What thing did Natsuki say?
--!
U-Um!
Well, never mind that...
I-I'm going to go make some tea...
Ah, good idea.
Make enough for more than one person, okay?
Y-Yeah.
N-Natsuki...
Natsuki glares at me, drying up any words I had in my mouth.
So instead, I turn to Yuri.
Yuri...
...
But Yuri's expression is so defenseless that I can't bring myself to say anything to her.
...
...Sayori!
Eh?!
...Yeah!
Everyone's fighting is making Sayori uncomfortable.
How can the two of you keep fighting when you know you're making your friend feel like this?
[player]...
Well... That's her problem! This isn't about her.
I-I agree...
It's unfair for others to interject their own feelings into our conflict.
Yeah, unless Sayori wants to tell Yuri what a stuck-up jerk she's being.
She would never...!
It's your immaturity that's made her upset in the first place!
{i}Excuse{/i} me?
Are you listening to yourself?
This is exactly why...
Exactly why nobody likes--
{i}Stop!!{/i}
--
Natsuki! Yuri!
You guys are my friends!
I-I just want everyone to get along and be happy!
My friends are wonderful people...
And I love them because of their differences!
Natsuki's poems...
They're amazing because they give you so many feelings with just a few words!
And Yuri's poems are amazing because they paint beautiful pictures in your head!
Everyone's so talented...
...So why are we fighting...?
Be-Because...
Well...
Also!
Natsuki's cute and there's nothing wrong with that!
And Yuri's boobs are the same as they always were!
Big and beautiful!!
...
...
Sayori...
Sayori stands triumphantly.
Monika stands behind her with a bewildered expression.
I'll...make some tea...
Yuri rushes off.
Natsuki sits down with a blank expression on her face, staring at nothing.
So, this is why Sayori is Vice President...
I whisper to Monika.
She nods in return.
To be honest...
I might come off as a good leader, and I can organize things...
But I'm not very good with people...
I couldn't even bring myself to interject.
As President, that's kind of embarrassing of me.
Ahaha...
Nah...
It's not like I can blame you.
I wasn't able to say anything, either.
Well...
I guess that just means Sayori is amazing in her own ways, isn't she?
You could say that.
She might be an airhead, but sometimes it's weirdly suspicious that she knows exactly what she's doing.
I see~
Take good care of her, okay?
I would hate to see her get herself hurt.
That makes two of us...
You can count on me.
Monika smiles sweetly at me, causing my stomach to knot.
Such a genuine person really does make a good President, regardless of what she says.
If only I could get the chance to talk to her a little more...
[gtext]
I see an annoying girl running toward me from the distance, waving her arms in the air like she's totally oblivious to any attention she might draw to herself.
That girl is [s_name], my neighbor and good friend since we were children.
You know, the kind of friend you'd never see yourself making today, but it just kind of works out because you've known each other for so long?
We used to walk to school together on days like this, but starting around high school she would oversleep more and more frequently, and I would get tired of waiting up.
But if she's going to chase after me like this, I almost feel better off running away.
However, I just sigh and idle in front of the crosswalk and let [s_name] catch up to me.
{cps=60}[gtext]{/cps}{nw}
{cps=60}[gtext]{/cps}{nw}
Another day passes, and it's time for the club meeting already.
I've gotten a little more comfortable here over the past couple days.
Entering the clubroom, the usual scene greets me.
Hi [player]~
Yo, Sayori.
Looks like you're in a good mood today.
Ehehe~
I'm just still not used to you being in the club, that's all.
I see...
...That's a pretty simple thing to get you in a good mood.
But I guess it's always the simple things with you, anyway.
Speaking of which...
I'm kinda hungry...
Will you come with me to buy a snack?
No thanks.
Eh??
T-That's not like you at all!!
I have my reasons.
Why don't we take a look at your purse, Sayori?
E-Eh?
Why that...all of a sudden?
No reason, really.
I just wanted to look at it.
A-Ah...
Sayori nervously retrieves her coin purse.
She fumbles with the latch and gets it open.
Then, she turns it upside-down and lets its contents spill onto the desk.
Only two small coins fall out.
A-Ahaha...
I knew it...
I can see right through you, Sayori.
That's not fair!
How did you even know?
It's simple.
If you had enough money in the first place, you would have bought a snack before coming to the clubroom.
So, either you're not hungry and wanted an excuse to take a walk...
Or, you planned to conveniently forget that you spent all your money, so that I would lend you some!
But there's one more thing...
...You're always hungry!
And so, that only leaves the one option!
Uwaaa~!
I give up!
Don't make me feel guiltyyy!
If you feel guilty, that means you deserve to feel guilty...
Ahaha.
Yuri suddenly giggles.
Eh?
I didn't notice that she was listening in.
Her face is in her book, as always.
A-Ah!
I wasn't listening or anything--!
It was just...something in my book...
Yuriiii...
Tell [player] to let me borrow some money...
That's--!
Don't get me involved like that, Sayori...
Besides...
You should only buy what you can responsibly afford...
And frankly, after pulling a mischievous little stunt like that, your suffering is fair enough retribution.
...
Ah--!
Did I just...
I-I didn't mean that!!
I got too absorbed into my book...
Uu...
Ahaha!
I really like when you speak your mind, Yuri...
It doesn't happen much, but it's a fun side of you!
That's...
There's no way you could think that...
You were right, though...
I did something bad and now I have to accept the revolution.
Retribution...
That!
Still, coming from you, Sayori...
I guess there's a little devil inside all of us, isn't there?
Ehehe...
Don't let her fool you.
Sayori knows exactly what she's doing.
After all, she told you guys she was bringing me to the club before she even told me...
B-But...!
You wouldn't have come if it weren't for the cupcakes...
So I had to trick Natsuki into making them!
Come on, give me more credit than that, Sayori.
Ehehe...
{i}Pwap!{/i}
Kyaa--!
Out of nowhere, something smacks Sayori in the face and tumbles onto the desk.
Ow...
What was--
Eh??
A-A cookie!
Sure enough, it's a giant cookie wrapped in plastic.
Sayori glances around.
I-Is this a miracle??
It's because I paid my restitution!
Retribution...
Actually, that one almost worked...
Ahahaha!
I {i}was{/i} just gonna give it to you.
But then I heard you blab about the cupcakes.
It was totally worth seeing your reaction, though. Ahaha!
N-Natsuki!
That's so nice of you!
I'm so happy...
Sayori hugs the cookie.
Jeez, just eat it...
Sayori rapidly tears open the wrapper and takes a big bite.
Sho good...
Mmf--!
Sayori suddenly clasps her hands over her mouth.
I bit my tongue...
Ehehe.
You're going through a lot over just one cookie.
Natsuki takes a bite of her own cookie.
Ah, yours looks really good too, Natsuki!
Can I try it?
Jeez...
Beggars can't be choosers!
But yours is chocolate...
Yeah, why do you think I gave you that one?
Fine...
Still, I'm really happy that you shared this one with me.
Ehehe~
Sayori gets out of her seat and goes behind Natsuki, then wraps her arms around her.
Ah-- Jeez...
I get it, I get it.
Cookie still in hand, Natsuki reaches up to nudge Sayori off of her.
...{i}Om.{/i}
Sayori suddenly leans down and takes a bite out of Natsuki's cookie.
{i}H-Hey!!{/i}
Did you seriously just do that?!
Uhuhuhu!
Mouth full, Sayori trots away to safety.
Yuri and I laugh as well.
Jeez! You're such a kid sometimes!
Monika! Can you tell Sayori--
--Eh?
Natsuki glances around.
Monika isn't in the clubroom.
Ugh...
Where's Monika, anyway?
Good question...
Have any of you heard anything about her being late today?
Not me...
Yeah, I haven't either.
Hm...
That's a bit unusual.
I hope she's okay...
Of course she's okay.
She probably just had something to do today.
She's pretty popular, after all...
Eh?
You don't think she...
She has a...!
Ahaha. I wouldn't be surprised.
She's probably more desirable than all of us combined.
Ehehe, that's true...
Excuse me?!
Suddenly, the door swings open.
Sorry! I'm super sorry!
Ah, there you are...
I didn't mean to be late...
I hope you guys weren't worried or anything!
Eh??
Monika chose the club over her boyfriend after all!
You're so strong-willed!
B-Boyfriend...?
What on Earth are you talking about?
Monika quizzically glances at me.
Ah, never mind that...
What held you up, anyway?
Ah...
Well, my last period today was study hall.
To be honest, I kind of just lost track of time...
Ahaha...
That makes no sense, though.
You would have heard the bell ring, at least.
I must not have heard it, since I was practicing piano...
Piano...?
I wasn't aware you played music as well, Monika.
Ah, I don't, really...!
I kind of just started recently.
I've always wanted to learn piano.
That's so cool!
You should play something for us, Monika!
That's...
Monika looks at me.
Maybe once I get a little bit better, I will.
Yay~!
That sounds cool.
I'd also look forward to it.
Is that so?
In that case...
I won't let you down, [player].
Monika smiles sweetly.
Ah...
I didn't mean any pressure or anything like that!
Ahaha, don't worry.
I've been practicing a whole lot recently.
And I'd really love the chance to share once I'm ready.
I see...
In that case, best of luck.
Thanks~!
So, I didn't miss anything, did I?
Not...not really.
I choose to leave out Sayori's mischievous escapade.
I'm sure Natsuki will end up complaining to her, anyway.
It looks like everyone has already settled down.
Sayori somehow already finished her entire cookie.
Yuri is back to her book, and Natsuki disappeared into the closet.
Okay, everyone!
We're all done reading each other's poems, right?
I have something extra planned today, so if everyone could come sit at the front of the room...
Is this about the festival?
Well, sort of~
Ugh. Do we really have to do something for the festival?
It's not like we can put together anything good in just a few days.
We'll just end up embarrassing ourselves instead of getting any new members.
That's a concern of mine as well.
I don't really do well with last-minute preparations...
Don't worry so much!
We're going to keep it simple, okay?
We won't need much more than a few decorations.
Sayori has been working on posters, and I've designed some pamphlets we can give out during the event.
Okay, that's great and all...
But that doesn't tell us what we're actually going to be doing for the event.
Ah, sorry! I thought you heard about it already.
We're going to be performing!
Performing?
P...
Um, Monika...
Yeah! We're going to be having a poetry performance.
Each of us are going to choose a poem to recite during the event.
But the cool part is, we're also going to let anyone else come up and recite poems too!
Sayori's putting it on all the posters in case anyone wants to prepare ahead of time.
Ehehe~
Sayori, who's been coloring a poster, holds it up for us to see.
Are you kidding me, Monika?
You didn't...you didn't already start putting those posters up, did you?
Eh? Well, I did...
Do you really think it's that bad of an idea...?
Well, no.
It's not a bad idea.
But I didn't sign up for this, you know!
There is {i}no{/i} way I'm going to be performing in front of a group of people like that!
I...I agree with Natsuki!
I could never...in my life...do something like that...
Imagining it, Yuri shakes her head in fear.
Guys...
No, Sayori...
I understand where they're coming from.
Remember that Natsuki and Yuri have never shared their poems with anyone until just a couple days ago...
It's a lot to ask for them to recite their poems out loud to a whole room full of people.
I guess I kind of overlooked that.
So, I'm sorry.
...
...But!
I still think we should give it our best!
We're the only ones responsible for the fate of this club.
If we start the event and each put on a good performance...
Then it will inspire others to do the same!
And the more people who perform, the better we'll be able to show everyone what literature is all about!
Yeah!
It's about expressing your feelings...
Being intimate with yourself...
Finding new horizons...
And having fun!
That's right!
And it's those reasons that we're all in this club today.
Don't you want to share that with others?
To inspire them to find the same feelings that brought you here in the first place?
I know you do.
I know we all do.
And if all it takes is standing in front of the room for two minutes and reciting a poem...
...Then I know you can do it!
...
...
Natsuki and Yuri remain silent.
Sayori looks worried.
I guess that leaves me no choice...
I agree...
I don't think it's too much to ask.
I think that Sayori and Monika have been trying really hard to get new members.
The least we can do is help them out a little bit.
Well...maybe, but...
...
It looks like Natsuki doesn't have any arguments left.
Uu...
...Okay, fine!
I guess I'll just have to get it over with.
Alright~!
Phew...
Thanks, Natsuki.
What about you, Yuri...?
...
Yuri dejectedly glances around at everyone else's expectant faces.
Sigh...
I-I guess I don't really have a choice...
Ahaha! That's everyone!
You're the best, Yuri~
This club is seriously going to be the death of me...
Oh gosh...
You'll be fine, Yuri.
But anyway...
Let's move onto the main event!
I want each of you to choose a poem of yours.
We're going to practice reciting them in front of each other.
N-N-No way!!
Monika...!
This is too sudden...!
Well, if you can't recite your poem in front of the club, how do you expect to do it in front of strangers?
Oh no...
Don't worry.
I'll start off to help everyone feel a little more comfortable.
Can I go next??
Ahaha. Of course.
Now, let's see...
Monika flips through her notebook to the specific poem she has in mind for herself.
She then stands behind the podium.
The title of this poem is {i}The Way They Fly{/i}.
Ahem...
Monika begins reciting her poem.
Her clear, confident voice fills the room.
More than that, her inflection is pristine.
She knows exactly how to apply emotion behind each line she recites, bringing the words to life.
Is this something she's done before, or is she simply a natural?
I glance around me.
Everyone has their eyes on Monika.
Sayori looks amazed.
Yuri has an intense expression on her face that I don't understand.
Finally, Monika finishes the recitation.
The four of us applaud.
Monika takes a breath and smiles.
That...that was so good, Monika!
Ahaha, thank you very much.
I was just hoping to set a good example.
Are you ready to go next, Sayori?
I...I'll go next!!
Uwah! Yuri's fired up all of a sudden!
Yuri clutches a sheet of paper between her hands and stands up.
Keeping her head down, she walks quickly over to the podium.
This poem is called--!
Yuri anxiously glances at each of us.
You can do it, Yuri...
It...It's called...{i}Afterimage of a Crimson Eye{/i}.
Yuri's voice shakes as she starts reading the poem.
Just a moment ago, she practically refused to do this.
Why is she suddenly putting in so much effort?
As Yuri gets past the first couple of lines, her voice changes.
It's almost like what happens when Yuri gets absorbed into her books.
Her quivering words transform into the sharp syllables of a fierce and confident woman.
The poem is full of twists and turns in its structure that she enunciates with perfect timing.
This must be a rare glimpse into the whirling fire Yuri keeps concealed inside her head...!
Suddenly, she's finished.
Everyone is stunned.
Yuri snaps back into reality and glances around her, as if she bewildered even herself.
I...
...It's up to me to save this situation.
I'm the first to start applauding.
Everyone joins me afterward, and we give Yuri the recognition she deserves.
It's not that we didn't want to applaud for her.
But we were caught so off-guard that we must have forgotten.
As we applaud, Yuri holds the poem to her chest and rushes back into her seat.
Yuri, that was really good.
Thank you for sharing.
...
Looks like Yuri is down for the count...
Okaay~
I guess I'm next, then!
Sayori hops out of her chair and cheerfully walks to the podium.
This one's called...{i}My Meadow{/i}.
Ah...
...Ahaha!
Sorry, I giggled...
Ehehe...
Sayori...
It's a lot harder than I thought!
How did you guys do it so easily?
Ah...
Try not to think of it like you're reciting to other people.
Imagine you're reciting it to yourself, like in front of a mirror, or in your own head.
It's your poem, so it'll come out the best that way.
I see, I see...
Okay, then...
Sayori begins her poem.
Somehow, it feels like her soft voice was made as a perfect match.
The poem isn't aimlessly cheery like Sayori is.
It's serene and bittersweet.
If I were to read this on paper, I probably wouldn't think much of it...
But hearing it come from Sayori's voice almost gives it a whole new meaning.
Maybe this is what Sayori meant when she said she likes my poems.
It's like I get to reach more deeply into someone I thought I knew through and through.
Sayori finishes, and we applaud.
I did it~!
Good job, Sayori.
Ehehe, even [player] liked it.
I guess that's a good sign~
What does that even mean...?
It came out nicely, Sayori.
The atmosphere of the poem fits you really nicely.
But it might be that other poems wouldn't work quite as well with that kind of delivery...
Eh? I don't really understand...
In other words, I've seen poems of yours where that sort of gentle delivery wouldn't work as well.
They might need a little more force behind them, depending on what you're reading...
Oh, I know what you mean!
That's...well, I've been practicing that kind of thing...
It's just embarrassing to do in front of everyone...
Ehehe...
Then next time, I'm going to make you pick a poem that challenges you a little more.
We don't have much time before the festival, you know?
Okaaaaay.
Now, who's next...?
Natsuki?
Hmph.
Don't make me go before [player].
It's not like I can compare to you guys, anyway...
Might as well let [player] lower everyone's standards a little before I have to do it.
Natsuki...
It's fine, it's fine.
I might as well get it over with.
But it's not like I have much of a selection of what to read...
I'll just have to go with what I wrote for today.
I stand up and step in front of the podium.
Everyone has their eyes on me, making me feel terribly awkward.
I recite my poem.
Since I'm not exactly confident in my own writing, it's hard to put energy into it.
Despite that, once I finish, I receive applause anyway.
Sorry I'm not really as good as everyone else...
Don't worry about it so much.
I think it's less about your abilities, and more about your lack of confidence in your writing.
That's something that'll improve over time, though.
Yeah... Maybe.
Alright, then!
That just leaves you, Natsuki.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm going.
Natsuki begrudgingly gets out of her seat and makes her way to the podium.
The poem is called...
It's called...
W-Why are you all looking at me?!
Because you're presenting...
Hmph...
Anyway...the poem is called {i}Jump{/i}.
Natsuki takes a breath.
Once she starts reciting the poem, her sour attitude disappears a little.
While she's still a little unenthused, her poem has a rhythm and rhyme to it.
It's Natsuki's trademark style, and it works surprisingly well when spoken aloud.
The words feel like they bounce up and down, as if giving life to the poem.
Natsuki finishes, and everyone applauds.
She huffs back to her seat.
That wasn't so bad, was it?
Easy for you to say...
You'd better not make me do that again.
Ah, well...
Do you at least feel prepared enough to recite a poem in front of other people?
I mean, doing it in front of other people will be way easier!
I can put on whatever face I want for other people.
But when it's just my friends...
It's just...embarrassing.
That's a surprise, Natsuki...
I think it would be the other way around for me.
Well, that's just how it is, so...
Well, I guess in that case...
You won't have much to worry about for the festival.
That said, I want to thank everyone for coming through.
It might be hard, but I hope that you all have an idea of what it's like now.
Make sure you pick a poem and get enough practice before the festival, okay?
I'll be making pamphlets, so let me know ahead of time what you'll be reciting.
Jeez...
I should probably find some other poem to recite instead.
That's fine, too!
It doesn't have to be your own.
I'm already pleasantly surprised that you're putting in all this effort for the club.
It makes me really happy.
Ah... Yeah, no problem...
Okay, everyone!
I think that's about it for today.
I know the festival is coming up, but let's try to write poems for tomorrow, as well.
It's been working out really nicely so far, so I'd like to continue that.
As for the festival, we'll finish planning tomorrow, and then we'll have the weekend to prepare.
Monday's the big day!
I can't wait~!
I can do this... I can do this...
Alright--
I stand up.
There's no way I'll be able to find the same enthusiasm as Sayori and Monika, but I'll do my best to get through it.
If it's for the sake of the club...
And impressing Monika...
Then I'll have to do my best.
Ready to go, Sayori?
Yep!
Look at you two, always going home together like that.
It's kind of adorable, isn't it?
Ehehe~
Jeez, guys...
Don't make such a big deal out of it.
It must be a little nice, though...
Well...
Ah...
How am I supposed to respond to that?
It's okay, [player], you don't have to say it.
...Whatever. Let's go already.
I walk home with Sayori once more.
Even though it's only been a few days, a lot of things have already changed.
But today, Sayori is being a little quieter than usual on the way home.
Hey, Sayori...
...
...Sorry! I was spacing out!
Ah, no wonder...
Um...
I was...thinking about something from earlier.
I like how we get to...
I-I mean...
Sayori fumbles with her words.
So...let's just say that one day, [ch2_winner] asked to walk home with you...
Huh?!
What would you do?
What kind of question is that...?
You're kind of putting me on the spot here...
Ehehe...
Then again, the festival is only a few days away...
Who knows what will happen in that time?
Sayori...
You really think I would ditch you for [ch2_winner]?
Eh?!
B-But...
She's so cute and fun to be around...
She's so beautiful and smart...
Jeez...
I already see her in the club every day.
Besides, you always seem to really like going home together...
I wouldn't just ruin that for you.
You're so silly, [player]...
You think about me too much sometimes.
[ch2_winner] would deserve it if she wanted it, so...
Sayori, I've already made up my mind.
I really can't figure you out sometimes...
Sorry...
Besides, what's the point in speculating something that's never going to happen?
Hm...
The conversation trails off.
It's kind of a weird thing for Sayori to care so much about...
But I want to respect her and keep her happy, too.
Walking home with Natsuki, huh...
Why does the thought of that make my heart pound...?
I mean...
I think I would be afraid of what she'd do to me if I turned her down...
Isn't she so cute and fun to be around?
Walking home with Yuri, huh...
Why does the thought of that make my heart pound...?
I mean...
Given how hard it is for her to socialize, I would feel awful turning her down, so...
Isn't she so beautiful and smart?
That has nothing to do with what I just said!
Ahaha! You admitted it!
Jeez...
There's not even any point in speculating something that's never going to happen.
Well, maybe...
But I just like to think about it.
It's not long before you won't need me anymore, you know?
Need you...?
Sayori...
I can't figure out how you're seeing things in your head right now.
Sorry...
Everyone is different...
Nobody in the club is a replacement for you.
Hmm...
If you say so...
The conversation trails off, and I'm left feeling awkward.
But it was kind of her fault for trapping me with such a weird question...
I can't just lie to her.
But if there's something that makes her happy, I would hate to take that away from her.
That's why I said there's no point in speculating.
It's an ordinary school day, like any other.
Mornings are usually the worst, being surrounded by couples and friend groups walking to school together.
Meanwhile, I've always walked to school alone.
I always tell myself it's about time I meet some girls or something like that...
But I have no motivation to join any clubs.
I'm perfectly content just getting by on the average while spending my free time on games and anime.
There's always the anime club, but it's not like there would be any girls in it anyway...
The school day is as ordinary as ever, and it's over before I know it.
After I pack up my things, I stare blankly at the wall, looking for an ounce of motivation.
Clubs...
There really aren't any that interest me.
Besides, most of them would probably be way too demanding for me to want to deal with.
I guess I have no choice but to start with the anime club...
...[player]?
...Monika?
Oh my goodness, I totally didn't expect to see you here!
It's been a while, right?
Ah...
Yeah, it has.
Monika smiles sweetly.
We do know each other - well, we rarely talked, but we were in the same class last year.
Monika was probably the most popular girl in class - smart, beautiful, athletic.
Basically, completely out of my league.
So, having her smile at me so genuinely feels a little...
What did you come in here for, anyway?
Oh, I've just been looking for some supplies to use for my club.
Do you know if there's any construction paper in here?
Or markers?
I guess you could check the closet.
...You're in the debate club, right?
Ahaha, about that...
I actually quit the debate club.
Really? You quit?
Yeah...
To be honest, I can't stand all of the politics around the major clubs.
It feels like nothing but arguing about the budget and publicity and how to prepare for events...
I'd much rather take something I personally enjoy and make something special out of it.
In that case, what club did you decide to join?
Actually, I'm starting a new one!
A literature club!{nw}
A literature club!{fast}
Literature...?
That sounds kind of...dull?
How many members do you have so far?
Um...
Ahaha...
It's kind of embarrassing, but there are only three of us so far.
It's really hard to find new members for something that sounds so boring...
Well, I can see that...
But it's really not boring at all, you know!
Literature can be anything. Reading, writing, poetry...
I mean, one of my members even keeps her manga collection in the clubroom...
Wait...really?
Yeah, it's funny, right?
She always insists that manga is literature, too.
I mean, she's not wrong, I guess...
And besides, a member's a member, right?
...Did Monika say "she"?
Hmm...
Hey, [player]...
By any chance...are you still looking for a club to join?
Ah--
I mean, I guess so, but...
In that case...
Is there any chance you could do me a big favor?
I won't ask you to join, but...
If you could at the very least visit my club, it would make me really happy.
Please?
Um...
Well, I guess I have no reason to refuse...
Besides, how could I ever refuse someone like Monika?
Sure, I guess I could check it out.
Aah, awesome!
You're really sweet, [player], you know that?
I-It's nothing, really...
Shall we go, then?
I'll look for the materials another time - you're more important.
And thus, today marks the day I sold my soul to Monika and her irresistible smile.
I timidly follow Monika across the school and upstairs - a section of the school I rarely visit, being generally used for third-year classes and activities.
Monika, full of energy, swings open the classroom door.
I'm back~!
And I brought a guest with me!
Eh?
A...a guest?
Seriously? You brought a boy?
Way to kill the atmosphere.
Don't be mean, Natsuki...
...But anyway, welcome to the club, [player]!
...
All words escape me in this situation.
This club...
{i}...is full of incredibly cute girls!!{/i}
So, let me guess...
You're Monika's boyfriend, right?
Wha--
No, I'm not!
Natsuki...
The girl with the sour attitude, whose name is apparently Natsuki, is one I don't recognize.
Her small figure makes me think she's probably a first-year.
A-Anyway, this is Natsuki, energetic as usual...
And this is Yuri, the Vice President!
I-It's nice to meet you...
Yuri, who appears comparably more mature and timid, seems to have a hard time keeping up with someone like Natsuki.
Yeah... It's nice to meet both of you.
So, I ran into [player] in a classroom, and he decided to come check out the club.
Isn't that great?
Wait! Monika!
Didn't I tell you to let me know in advance before you brought anyone new?
I was going to...well, you know...
Sorry, sorry!
I didn't forget that, but I just happened to run into him.
In that case, I should at least make some tea, right?
Yeah, that would be great!
Why don't you come sit down, [player]?
The girls have a few desks arranged to form a table.
Yuri walks to the corner of the room and opens the closet.
Meanwhile, Monika and Natsuki sit across from each other.
Still feeling awkward, I take a seat next to Monika.
So, I know you didn't really plan on coming here...
But we'll make sure you feel right at home, okay?
As president of the Literature Club, it's my duty to make the club fun and exciting for everyone!
I'm surprised there aren't more people in the club yet.
It must be hard to start a new club.
You could put it that way.
Not many people are very interested in putting out all the effort to start something brand new...
Especially when it's something that doesn't grab your attention, like literature.
You have to work hard to convince people that you're both fun and worthwhile.
But it makes school events, like the festival, that much more important.
I'm confident that we can all really grow this club before we graduate!
Right, Natsuki?
Well...
...I guess.
Natsuki reluctantly agrees.
Such different girls, all interested in the same goal...
Monika must have worked really hard just to find these two.
Yuri returns to the table, carrying a tea set.
She carefully places a teacup in front of each of us before setting down the teapot in the middle.
You keep a whole tea set in this classroom?
Don't worry, the teachers gave us permission.
After all, doesn't a hot cup of tea help you enjoy a good book?
Ah... I-I guess...
Ehehe, don't let yourself get intimidated, Yuri's just trying to impress you.
Eh?! T-That's not...
Insulted, Yuri looks away.
I meant that, you know...
I believe you.
Well, tea and reading might not be a pastime for me, but I at least enjoy tea.
I'm glad...
Yuri faintly smiles to herself in relief.
So, [player], what kinds of things do you like to read?
Well... Ah...
Considering how little I've read these past few years, I don't really have a good way of answering that.
...Manga...
I mutter quietly to myself, half-joking.
Natsuki's head suddenly perks up.
It looks like she wants to say something, but she keeps quiet.
N-Not much of a reader, I guess...
...Well, that can change...
What am I saying?
I spoke without thinking after seeing Yuri's sad smile.
Anyway, what about you, Yuri?
Well, let's see...
Yuri traces the rim of her teacup with her finger.
My favorites are usually novels that build deep and complex fantasy worlds.
The level of creativity and craftsmanship behind them is amazing to me.
And telling a good story in such a foreign world is equally impressive.
Yuri goes on, clearly passionate about her reading.
She seemed so reserved and timid since the moment I walked in, but it's obvious by the way her eyes light up that she finds her comfort in the world of books, not people.
But you know, I like a lot of things.
Stories with deep psychological elements usually immerse me as well.
Isn't it amazing how a writer can so deliberately take advantage of your own lack of imagination to completely throw you for a loop?
Anyway, I've been reading a lot of horror lately...
Ah, I read a horror book once...
I desperately grasp something I can relate to at the minimal level.
At this rate, Yuri might as well be having a conversation with a rock.
Ahaha. I'd expect that from you, Yuri.
It suits your personality.
Oh, is that so?
Really, if a story makes me think, or takes me to another world, then I really can't put it down.
Surreal horror is often very successful at changing the way you look at the world, if only for a brief moment.
Ugh, I hate horror...
Oh? Why's that?
Well, I just...
Natsuki's eyes dart over to me for a split second.
Never mind.
That's right, you usually like to write about cute things, don't you, Natsuki?
W-What?
What gives you that idea?
You left a piece of scrap paper behind last club meeting.
It looked like you were working on a poem called--
Don't say it out loud!!
And give that back!
Fine, fine~
Natsuki, you write your own poems?
Eh? Well, I guess sometimes.
Why do you care?
I think that's impressive.
Why don't you share them sometime?
N-No!
Natsuki averts her eyes.
You wouldn't...like them...
Ah...not a very confident writer yet?
I understand how Natsuki feels.
Sharing that level of writing takes more than just confidence.
The truest form of writing is writing to oneself.
You must be willing to open up to your readers, exposing your vulnerabilities and showing even the deepest reaches of your heart.
Do you have writing experience too, Yuri?
Maybe if you share some of your work, you can set an example and help Natsuki feel comfortable enough to share hers.
...
I guess it's the same for Yuri...
We all sit in silence for a moment.
Hey, I just got an idea!
How about this?
...?
Natsuki and Yuri look quizzically at Monika.
Let's all go home and write a poem of our own!
Then, next time we meet, we'll all share them with each other.
That way, everyone is even!
U-Um...
...
Ah...
I mean, I thought it was a good idea...
Well...
...I think you're right, Monika.
We should probably start finding activities for all of us to participate in together.
I did decide to take on the responsibility of Vice President, after all...
I need to do my best to nurture the club as well as its members.
Besides, now that we have a new member...
It seems like a good step for us to take.
Do you agree as well, [player]?
Hold on...there's still one problem.
Eh? What's that?
Now that we've reached the most important topic, I bluntly come forth with what's been on my mind the entire time.
I never said I would join this club!
Monika may have convinced me to stop by, but I never made any decision.
I still have other clubs to look at, and...um...
I lose my train of thought.
All three girls stare back at me with dejected eyes.
B-But...
I'm sorry, I thought...
Hmph.
Eh...?
The girls exchange glances before Monika turns back to me.
I...guess I need to tell you the truth, [player].
The thing is...
...We don't have enough members yet to form an official club.
We need four...
And I've been trying really, really hard to find new members.
And if we don't find one more before the festival...
...
I...I'm defenseless against these girls.
How am I supposed to make a clear-headed decision when it's like this?
I would feel terrible for letting everyone down in this situation...
And besides, the club itself seems pretty relaxed...
So, if writing poems is the price I need to pay in order to spend every day with these beautiful girls...
...Right.
Okay, I've decided, then.
I'll join the Literature Club.
One by one, the girls' eyes light up.
Oh my goodness, really?
Do you really mean that, [player]?
Yeah...
It could be fun, right?
You really did scare me for a moment...
I mean, if you really just left after all this, I would be super pissed.
[player], I'm so happy...
We can become an official club now!
Thank you so much for this. You're really amazing.
I'll do everything I can to give you a great time, okay?
Ah...thanks, I guess.
Okay, everyone!
I think with that, we can officially end today's meeting on a good note.
Everyone remember tonight's assignment:
Write a poem to bring to the next meeting, so we can all share!
Monika looks over at me once more.
[player], I look forward to seeing how you express yourself.
Ehehe~
Y-Yeah...
Can I really impress the class star Monika with my mediocre writing skills?
I already feel the anxiety welling up inside me.
Meanwhile, the girls continue to chit-chat as Yuri cleans up the tea set.
I guess I'll be on my way, then...
Okay!
I'll see you tomorrow, then.
I can't wait!
With that, I depart the clubroom and make my way home.
The whole way, my mind wanders back and forth between the three girls:
Natsuki,
Yuri,
and, of course, Monika.
Will I really be happy spending every day after school in a literature club?
Perhaps I'll have the chance to grow closer to one of these girls...
Alright!
I'll just need to make the most of my circumstances, and I'm sure good fortune will find me.
And I guess that starts with writing a poem tonight...
Hi again, [player]!
Glad to see you didn't run away on us. Hahaha!
Nah, don't worry.
This might be a little strange for me, but I at least keep my word.
Well, I'm back at the Literature Club.
I was the last to come in, so everyone else is already hanging out.
Thanks for keeping your promise, [player].
I hope this isn't too overwhelming of a commitment for you.
Making you dive headfirst into literature when you're not accustomed to it...
Oh, come on! Like he deserves any slack.
You already had to be dragged here by Monika.
I don't know if you plan to just come here and hang out, or what...
But if you don't take us seriously, then you won't see the end of it.
Natsuki, you certainly have a big mouth for someone who keeps her manga collection in the clubroom.
M-M-M...!!
Natsuki finds herself stuck between saying "Monika" and "Manga".
Manga is literature!!
Swiftly defeated, Natsuki plops back into her seat.
I'm sorry, [player]...
We'll make sure to put your comfort first, okay?
Yuri shoots Natsuki with a disappointed glance.
Um, anyway...
Now that you're in the club and all...
...Perhaps you might have interest in picking up a book to read?
Well...
I can't really say no either way.
Like you said, I'm in this club now.
So it only feels right for me to do something like that, if you ask.
W-Wait...
I didn't mean it like that!
Uu...
If you don't really want to, then forget I said anything, I guess...
Ah--No, it's not that, Yuri.
I want to try to be a part of this club.
So even if I don't read often, I'd be happy to pick up a book if you wanted me to.
A-Are you sure...?
I just felt like...
...Well, as Vice President and all...
...That I should help you get started on something you might like.
Yuri reaches into her bag and pulls out a book.
I didn't want you to feel left out...
So I picked out a book that I thought you might enjoy.
It's a short read, so it should keep your attention, even if you don't usually read.
And we could, you know...
Discuss it...if you wanted...
Th-This is...
How is this girl accidentally being so cute?
She even picked out a book she thinks I'll like, despite me not reading much...
Yuri, thank you! I'll definitely read this!
I enthusiastically take the book.
Phew...
Well, you can read it at your own pace.
I look forward to hearing what you think.
Now that everyone's settled in, I expected Monika to kick off some scheduled activities for the club.
But that doesn't seem to be the case.
Yuri's face is already buried in a book.
I can't help but notice her intense expression, like she was waiting for this chance.
Meanwhile, Natsuki is rummaging around in the closet.
Phew...
I guess that's everyone.
I glance around the room.
That was a little more stressful than I anticipated.
It's as if everyone is judging me for my mediocre writing abilities...
Even if they're just being nice, there's no way my poems can stand up to theirs.
This is a literature club, after all.
I sigh.
I guess that's what I ended up getting myself into.
Across the room, Monika is writing something in her notebook.
My eyes land on Yuri and Natsuki.
They gingerly exchange sheets of paper, sharing their respective poems.
As they read in tandem, I watch each of their expressions change.
Natsuki's eyebrows furrow in frustration.
Meanwhile, Yuri smiles sadly.
{i}(What's with this language...?){/i}
Eh?
Um...did you say something?
Oh, it's nothing.
Natsuki dismissively returns the poem to the desk with one hand.
I guess you could say it's fancy.
Ah-- Thanks...
Yours is...cute...
Cute?
Did you completely miss the symbolism or something?
It's clearly about the feeling of giving up.
How can that be cute?
I-I know that!
I just meant...
The language, I guess...
I was trying to say something nice...
Eh?
You mean you have to try that hard to come up with something nice to say?
Thanks, but it really didn't come out nice at all!
Um...
Well, I do have a couple suggestions...
Hmph.
If I was looking for suggestions, I would have asked someone who actually liked it.
Which people {i}did{/i}, by the way.
Monika liked it.
And [player] did, too!
So based on that, I'll gladly give you some suggestions of my own.
First of all--
Excuse me...
I appreciate the offer, but I've spent a long time establishing my writing style.
I don't expect it to change anytime soon, unless of course I come across something particularly inspiring.
Which I haven't yet.
Nn...!
And [player] liked my poem too, you know.
He even told me he was impressed by it.
Natsuki suddenly stands up.
Oh?
I didn't realize you were so invested in trying to impress our new member, Yuri.
E-Eh?!
That's not what I...!
Uu...
You...You're just...
Yuri stands up as well.
Maybe you're just jealous that [player] appreciates my advice more than he appreciated yours!
Huh! And how do you know he didn't appreciate {i}my{/i} advice more?
Are you that full of yourself?
I...!
No...
If I was full of myself...
...I would deliberately go out of my way to make everything I do overly cutesy!
Uuuuuu...!
Well, you know what?!
I wasn't the one whose boobs magically grew a size bigger as soon as [player] started showing up!!
N-Natsuki!!
Um, Natsuki, that's a little--
This doesn't involve you!
Taking out your own insecurities on others like that...
You really act as young as you look, Natsuki.
{i}Me?{/i} Look who's talking, you wannabe edgy bitch!
Edgy...?
Sorry that my lifestyle is too much for someone of your mental age to comprehend!
See??
Just saying that proves my point!
Most people learn to get over themselves after they graduate middle school, you know.
If you want to prove anything, then stop harassing others with your sickening attitude!
You think you can counterbalance your toxic personality just by dressing and acting cute?
The only cute thing about you is how hard you try.
Whoa, be careful or you might cut yourself on that edge, Yuri.
Oh, my bad... You already do, don't you?
D-Did you just accuse me of cutting myself??
What the fuck is wrong with your head?!
Yeah, go on!
Let [player] hear everything you really think!
I'm sure he'll be head over heels for you after this!
A-Ah--!
Suddenly, Yuri turns toward me, as if she just noticed I was standing here.
[player]...!
She-- She's just trying to make me look bad...!
That's not true!
She started it!
...
{cps=*2}How did I get dragged into this in the first place?!{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*2}It's not like I know anything about writing...{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*2}But whomever I agree with, they'll probably think more highly of me!{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*2}So, of course that's going to be...!{/cps}{nw}
...
...
...
Um...
Hey, [player]...
Why don't we
step outside for
a little bit?
Okay?
Sorry about that...
They really shouldn't have tried to get you involved.
It's probably better for us to stay out of this...
We'll go back inside once they're done yelling.
Ahaha...
Some president I am, right?
I can't even confront my own club members properly...
I just wish I was able to be a little more assertive sometimes.
But I never have it in me to put my foot down against others...
You understand, right?
Anyway...
If this makes you want to spend less time with the others, then that's fine.
I'd be happy to spend time with you instead...
Suddenly, Natsuki runs out of the classroom.
...
She quickly runs away.
Oh dear...
...Well, it looks like they're done...
I didn't mean it...
I didn't mean it...
I didn't mean it...
Yuri is rocking back and forth in her desk with her palms on her forehead.
Yuri...?
I didn't mean it!!
I-I believe you...
I have no idea what Yuri might have said to Natsuki.
Or did.
[player].
Please don't hate me.
Please!
I'm not like this!
There's something wrong with me today...
It's fine, Yuri.
We know you didn't mean it.
Besides, I'm sure Natsuki will forget all about it by tomorrow.
Completely.
...
Anyway, the meeting is over, so you can go home now if you want.
...
Yuri looks at me like she wants to say something.
But she keeps glancing at Monika.
Y-You can go first, Monika...
I'd like to stay a little bit longer.
I'm the President, so I should be the last one out.
I'll wait for you to be done.
...
...
Well-- I'm Vice President, so...
Please let me take that responsibility today.
It kind of sounds like you don't want me around for something, Yuri.
I-It's not that!
It's not that...
I just...
I didn't get much of a chance to discuss my book with [player]...
It would just be...embarrassing with you listening...
{i}*Sigh*{/i}
I guess I don't really have a choice, do I?
I-I'm sorry for causing trouble...
But I really appreciate you understan{nw}
But I really appreciate you understan{fast}[gtext] [gtext][gtext]{nw}
Another day passes, and it's time for the club meeting already.
I've gotten a little more comfortable here over the past couple days.
Entering the clubroom, the usual scene greets me.
Welcome back, [player]...
Ah, hi Yuri...
I'm not sure if it's me, or if it's Yuri's expression...
But the weight of yesterday's quarrel still hangs in the air a little.
U-Um...
Yuri glances over her shoulder, looking around the room.
Natsuki is reading manga at a desk.
And surprisingly, Monika isn't here yet.
Suddenly, Yuri takes my arm and pulls me to the corner of the room.
About yesterday...
I...
I really need to apologize.
Nothing like that has ever happened before...
And...something just came over me, I guess...
I wasn't acting mentally sound.
Please don't think we're usually like this!
Not just me, but Natsuki as well...
Yuri...
I'm happy that you were considerate and apologized.
You don't have to worry too much.
Even though I've only been here a couple days, I could tell something was off yesterday...
Maybe we were just a little extra sensitive because it was our first time sharing poems.
But whatever it was...
It didn't make me think any less of you.
I had already decided that there's no way you can be a bad person.
And now that you're apologizing, I know you really didn't mean it.
A-Ah...
[player]...
Don't say those kinds of things so frankly...
They make me a little too happy.
I'm really glad that you're such an understanding person...
And I'm really glad that you joined this club.
Everything is a little bit brighter with you around, and--
Ah--
Sorry, what am I saying right now...?
I just--
Hey, have you guys seen Monika?
Ah--!
No, I haven't...
I was also kind of wondering where she was.
Man...
Yuri, I'm guessing you haven't, either?
...
Yuri is clearly taken aback by how calmly Natsuki is addressing her.
N-No, I haven't...
Jeez, this isn't like her at all.
I know it's stupid, but I can't help but worry a little bit...
...
What?
Why're you looking at me like that?
U-Um...
Natsuki, about yesterday...
I-I just wanted to apologize!
I promise I didn't mean any of the things I said!
And I'll do my best to stay under control from now on...
So--
Yuri, what the heck are you talking about?
Did you do something yesterday?
...Eh?
Jeez...
Whatever's on your mind, I'm sure it was nothing.
I don't even remember anything bad happening.
You're the kind of person who worries too much about the little things, aren't you?
...
B-But...
mibulls sailcloth blindsight lifeline anan rectipetality faultlessly offered scleromalacia neighed catholicate
I'll accept your apology anyway, if it helps you feel better about it.
Besides, it's kinda nice to hear, since I was always afraid you secretly hated me or something like that.
Ehehe.
N-No, not at all...!
I don't hate you...
Ahaha.
Well, you're kind of weird, but I don't hate you either.
...
Natsuki turns to me.
You're still on trial, though.
Hey...!
Suddenly, the door swings open.
Sorry! I'm super sorry!
Ah, there you are...
I didn't mean to be late...
I hope you guys weren't worried or anything!
Nah...
Well, Natsuki was.
I-I was not!!
Ahaha.
...What took you so long, anyway?
Ah...
Well, my last period today was study hall.
To be honest, I kind of just lost track of time...
Ahaha...
That makes no sense, though.
You would have heard the bell ring, at least.
I must not have heard it, since I was practicing piano...
Piano...?
I wasn't aware you played music as well, Monika.
Ah, don't give me more credit than I deserve.
I guess I've been practicing for a while, but I'm still not really good yet.
Still...
That must require a lot of dedication.
So, I'm still impressed.
Aw, well thanks, Yuri~
You should play something for us sometime!
Ahaha, that's...
Monika looks at me.
Well, I am working on writing a song, but it's not quite done yet...
Maybe once I get a little bit better, I will.
That sounds cool.
I look forward to it.
Is that so?
In that case...
I won't let you down, [player].
Monika smiles sweetly.
Ah...
I didn't mean any pressure or anything like that!
Ahaha, don't worry.
I was hoping that I could share it with you, anyway.
I guess that's why I've been practicing so much recently.
I see...
I'm not sure if Monika was referring to the whole club, or just me...
In that case, best of luck.
Thanks~!
So, I didn't miss anything, did I?
Not...not really.
I choose not to bring up anything that the three of us talked about.
Besides, Natsuki has already run off into the closet.
[player]...
Um...
Since your compliments put me in a good mood...
I was wondering if you would like to spend some time together today.
I mean--in the club!
Ah, I suppose so.
I don't think I could say no to you, after you gave that book to me.
Well, I guess I need to make sure Natsuki isn't waiting for me.
After we finished reading yesterday, she--
She's fine!
She's reading over there. See?
Don't think about her so much.
She's used to being ignored.
Come on, we're going over there.
S-She's fine!
She's reading over there.
So it's okay, right?
Ah--
In that case, I don't see any problem...
Yeah, definitely.
I planned on it anyway.
Okay!
Can we start now?
Let's find a place to sit--
A-Ah--
I'm being a little forceful, aren't I...?
I'm sorry!
My heart...just won't stop pounding, for some reason...
Don't worry about it.
If anything, it's nice to see you have so much energy.
Y-Yeah!
But...
I need to try to calm down.
I won't be able to focus on reading like this...
Take your time.
Yuri takes a deep breath, then pulls a copy of the book out of her bag.
Okay, everyone!
We're all done reading each other's poems, right?
We have something we need to go over today, so if everyone could come sit at the front of the room...
Is this about the festival?
Well, sort of~
Ugh. Do we really have to do something for the festival?
It's not like we can put together anything good in just a few days.
We'll just end up embarrassing ourselves instead of getting any new members.
That's a concern of mine as well.
I don't really do well with last-minute preparations...
Don't worry so much!
We're going to keep it simple, okay?
Look...
I know everyone's been a little more...lively...ever since [player] joined and we've started with some club activities.
But this isn't the time for us to become complacent.
We still only have four members...
And the festival is our only real chance to find more, you know?
What's so great about getting new members, anyway?
We already have enough to be considered an official club.
More members will just mean everything gets noisier and more difficult to manage.
Natsuki...
I don't think you're looking at it the right way at all.
Don't you want to share your passion with as many people as you can?
To inspire them to find the same feelings that brought you here in the first place?
The Literature Club should be a place where people can express themselves like they can't do anywhere else.
It should be a place so intimate that you never want to leave.
I know you feel that way, too.
I know we all do!
So that's why we should work hard and put something together for the festival...even if it's something small!
Right, [player]?
Ah...
Oh, come on!
You can't take advantage of [player] to agree with you just because he doesn't know how to say no to anything.
Look, Monika.
Do you really think any of us here joined the club with other people in mind?
Yuri never even talked until [player] joined.
As for me, I just like it better here than I do at home.
And [player] isn't even passionate about literature in the first place.
And that's everyone.
Sorry, but you're really the only one who's so interested in finding new members.
The rest of us are fine like this.
I know you're President and all, but you should really consider our opinions for once.
...
Monika is clearly taken aback by Natsuki's words.
That's...not true at all.
I'm sure Yuri and [player] want to get more members too...
...Right?
...
...
I don't know about Yuri, but I'm kind of indifferent.
If I showed as much enthusiasm as Monika wanted, then I would probably be lying.
Still, if it's up to me to rescue this situation...
Um--
No.
Natsuki's right, isn't she?
This club...
It's nothing more than a place for a few people to hang out.
Why did I think that everyone here saw it the same way as I did?
But that doesn't mean that we're against getting new members or anything...
[player], why did you even join this club?
What were you hoping to get out of it?
Well--
That's not really something I can be honest about, is it?
In fact...
If I remember, you weren't even given a choice not to join.
Monika sits down and stares at her desk.
What's the point of all this, anyway?
What if starting this club was a mistake?
...
Now you've done it, Natsuki...
What, me?
I just spoke my mind...
Is it a crime to be honest?
It's not about being honest.
It's about word choice.
Besides, you have no right to speak for everyone else in the club like that...
You don't understand at all!
I just...
I just want a place that feels nice to hang out with a few friends.
Is there a problem with the club being that for me?
There aren't...there aren't many other places like that for me...
And now Monika wants to take it away from me!
She's not taking anything away--
No, [player].
It's not the same.
It won't be the same with the direction she wants to take it.
If I wanted that, then I could have just joined any other stupid club.
But this one...
I mean...
At least for a little bit of time...
Things were nice.
Natsuki starts packing up her things.
I'm going home.
I feel like...I don't belong here right now.
Natsuki...
Natsuki ignores Yuri and walks right out of the classroom.
...
This is bad...
I don't know what to do...
Well...
Do you have an opinion on the festival?
I-I don't know...
I'm kind of indifferent, I guess...
Who cares about that obnoxious brat?
I mean, I like how nice and quiet the club is right now...
And I'm just...happy with you here...
But still!
I'm the Vice President...
It's not right for me to ignore my responsibilities like that...
Nobody would cry if she killed herself.
I should do my best to consider everyone's perspective and make the decision that's right for the club.
But what about you, [player]?
What do you want to get out of this club?
Yuri repeats the same question as Monika.
I decide giving an indirect answer is better than nothing.
...I think the most important thing is for everyone to get along...
...And for the club to provide something that you can't get anywhere else.
I don't think it's about how many members, but rather the quality of each member.
That's what will end up making the Literature Club a special place.
I see...
I really agree with you.
Each member contributes their own qualities in a special way.
With each change in members, the identity of the club as a whole will change, too.
I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing.
Stepping out of your comfort zone once in a while...
So if you would like to help Monika with the festival, then I'm on your side as well.
Alright.
Well, maybe we can all talk to Natsuki tomorrow...
Yuri nods.
Hey, Yuri...
Eh?
Um, I know things were a little awkward yesterday...
But I feel like you deserve to know that I still think you're a wonderful vice president.
And also, a wonderful friend.
M-Monika...
I want to do everything I can to make this the best club ever.
Okay?
...Me too.
Yeah...
Let's all go home for today.
We'll talk about the festival tomorrow.
Okay.
I look forward to it.
Shall we go, [player]?
Um--
Please don't take this the wrong way, but...
I'm going to chat a little bit with [player] before we leave.
Just to see what he thinks of his time here and all that...
It's important to me, as President.
...
Yuri looks a little troubled, but she doesn't protest.
Okay.
I trust your judgment, Monika.
In that case, I'll see the two of you tomorrow.
See you tomorrow~
Monika waves as Yuri exits the classroom.
Phew...
Things have been a bit hectic lately, haven't they?
[player], I just wanted to make sure you're enjoying your time at this club.
I would really hate to see you unhappy.
I feel kind of like I'm responsible for that, as President...
And I really do care about you...you know?
I don't like seeing the other girls give you a hard time.
With how mean Natsuki is and everything...
And Yuri being a little bit...you know.
Ahaha...
Sometimes it feels like you and I are the only real people here.
You know what I mean?
But it's weird, because in all the time you've been here, we've hardly gotten to spend any time together.
Ah...I mean...
I guess it's technically only been a couple days...
Sorry, I didn't mean to say something weird!
There are just some things I've been hoping to talk about with you...
Things I know only you could understand.
So that's why--"{space=5000}{w=0.75}{nw}
Wait, not yet!"{space=5000}{w=0.5}{nw}
No!"{space=5000}{w=0.5}{nw}
Stop it!"{space=5000}{w=1.0}{nw}
Hi, [player]!
I've been waiting for you.
Are you ready to continue reading?
I brought my best tea today--
Monika!
I told you not to--
Ugh...
Is she really late again?
Inconsiderate as usual, Natsuki.
Excuse me?
Must you always interrupt my conversations with your incessant yelling?
What are you talking about?!
You say that like I do it on a regular basis or something.
I just wasn't paying attention, okay? I'm sorry.
Seriously... What's gotten into you lately?
Look...
I did some thinking about yesterday.
I was a little more hostile than I meant to be...
I guess I really felt threatened or something.
But I know this is something we're doing together.
Another new member wouldn't hurt, as long as they're cool...
And I guess another girl would be nice this time...
So...
Natsuki...
Nobody cares.
Why don't you go look for some coins under the vending machines or something?
--!
...
...
Aw, man...
I'm the last one here again!
Were you practicing piano again?
Yeah...
Ahaha...
You must have a lot of determination.
Starting this club, and still trying to make time for piano...
Well, maybe not determination...
But I guess passion.
It motivates me to work hard for the festival, too.
Me?
N-Nothing...
...
Is it really that bad...?
See, it {i}is{/i} something.
I'll get over it!
It's not even anything noteworthy...
I've just been feeling a little on edge lately...
A-Anyway, we don't need to talk about it!
Well, I just felt like I needed to bring it up.
It's not like I really care or anything...
Aw, man...
I'm the last one here again!
Well, [player] just walked in too.
Were you practicing piano again?
Yeah...
Ahaha...
You must have a lot of determination.
Starting this club, and still trying to make time for piano...
Well, maybe not determination...
But I guess passion.
It motivates me to work hard for the festival and...
Um...
...
Right...
I-I forgot...
Um, about that, Natsuki...
We were all talking yesterday, and...
Well...we decided that we would like to support the festival as well.
However...!
I understand how you feel about not wanting the club to change.
I think we all kind of feel that way.
So as long as we're all working together, this club will never become something we don't want.
...
Um, also...
If you help us out with the festival...
...Then I'll buy you a new manga!
...
Ahahaha!
Sorry, that last part was really funny.
Look...
I did some thinking about yesterday.
I was a little more hostile than I meant to be...
I guess I really felt threatened or something.
But I know this is something we're doing together.
Another new member wouldn't hurt, as long as they're cool...
And I guess another girl would be nice this time...
...But more importantly, I would hate to see the event suck just because I chose to back out!
I'm a pro, you know!
So I'm gonna help too, and we'll make sure it's done right.
Thank goodness...
Isn't that great, Monika?
...Monika?
Ah--
Yeah, that's wonderful!
It wouldn't be the same without you, Natsuki.
Anyway, [player]...
What do you want to do today?
I was thinking we could--
We already have plans today.
Ah...
Is that so, Yuri?
That's correct.
[player] is already engaged in a novel that we're reading together.
Aren't you glad I've already gotten him into literature, Monika?
I...
I suppose...
I was just--
Actually, it doesn't matter.
It really doesn't.
You guys can do whatever you want.
{i}(Yes!){/i}{w=0.5}{nw}
Um... Thank you for understanding, Monika.
Okay, everyone!
It's time to figure out the festival preparations.
Let's hurry and get this over with.
...
Jeez...
Why is the mood so weird today?
Look, even Yuri isn't immune to it.
Uu...
Stagnating air is common foreshadowing that something terrible is about to happen...
Look, can we just get this done?
I'm going to be printing and assembling all the poetry pamphlets.
Natsuki, you can make cupcakes.
I know you're at least good at that.
...
Natsuki, I was thinking--
I want to make cupcakes!
...Yeah, that.
Glad we're on the same page.
Yuri, you can...
...Well, it doesn't matter.
Do whatever you want, as long as you think it'll help.
Monika...
I'm not useless, you know!
I-I know that!
I already know what I'd like to do.
We can't run a successful poetry event without having the right atmosphere for the occasion.
So I'm going to make decorations and set up some nice mood lighting.
There, see?
That's a great idea!
And that gives us all something to do.
Eh?
What about [player]?
[player] is going to help me.
Wait, you?
You have the easiest job, Monika!
Sorry, but that's just how it is.
Like hell it is!
What are you trying to pull?
I-I agree with Natsuki!
Not only is your work already most suitable for one person...
But my task is laborious enough to benefit from an extra pair of hands.
Mine too!
What, your cupcakes?
Please.
Like {i}you{/i} would fucking know!
All you care about now is dragging [player] around with you and your stupid books.
You {i}and{/i} Monika!
Hey!
I didn't even do anything!
Okay, then why not let [player] decide who to help instead of abusing your power?
I'm not...abusing my power.
Yes you are, Monika.
Just let [player] make the choice, okay?
Okay, fine!
Fine.
Jeez...
[player], I know how fed up you are with these two by now.
We can just--
Natsuki, shut your fucking mouth and let him decide for himself.
{i}You{/i} shut your mouth!
Jesus christ...
This is never going to end. Just make the choice, okay?
Yay, you picked me!
We can meet at your house this weekend.
I promise it'll be fun.
Is Sunday okay with you?
Are you fucking kidding me?
This isn't fair at all!
It is fair, Natsuki.
It's what he chose.
No, it's not fair!
Giving us all this work and then taking [player] for yourself.
What a shameful thing to do!
Yuri, I didn't even give you any work.
You decided it for yourself.
You're being a little unreasonable here.
I'm being unreasonable?
Ahahaha!
Monika, I can't believe how delusional and self-important you are!
Pulling [player] away from me every single time you're not included in something.
Are you jealous?
Crazy?
Or maybe you just hate yourself so much that you take it out on others?
Here's a suggestion. Have you considered killing yourself?
It would be beneficial to your mental health.
Yuri, you're scaring me a little...
Natsuki, let's just go.
I don't think she wants us around right now.
See, that wasn't very hard.
All I want is to spend a little time with him.
Is that so much to ask?
Yuri follows Monika and Natsuki to the door.
Hey, [player]...
Yuri is really something, isn't she?
Monika giggles as Yuri pushes her out the door.
Finally.
Finally!
This is really all I wanted.
[player], there's no need to spend the weekend with Monika.
Don't listen to her.
Just come to my house instead.
The whole day, with just the two of us...
Doesn't that sound wonderful?
Ahahaha!
Wow... There's really something wrong with me, isn't there?
But you know what?
I don't care anymore.
I've never felt this good my whole life.
Just being with you is a far greater pleasure than anything I could imagine.
I'm addicted to you.
It feels like I'm going to die if I'm not breathing the same air as you.
Doesn't it feel nice to have someone care about you so much?
To have someone who wants to revolve their entire life around you?
But if it feels so good...
Then why does it feel more and more like something horrible is going to happen?
Maybe that's why I tried stopping myself at first...
But the feeling is too strong now.
I don't care anymore, [player]!
I have to tell you!
I'm...I'm madly in love with you!
It feels like every inch of my body...every drop of blood in me...is screaming your name.
I don't care what the consequences are anymore!
I don't care if Monika is listening!
Please, [player], just know how much I love you.
I love you so much that I even touch myself with the pen I stole from you.
I just want to pull your skin open and crawl inside of you.
I want you all to myself.
And I will be only yours.
Doesn't that sound perfect?
Tell me, [player].
Tell me you want to be my lover.
Do you accept my confession?
...Ahahaha.
Ahahahahahaha!
Ahahahahahahahaha!
AHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA{nw}
[persistent.yuri_kill] [gtext]
[gtext]
[gtext]
Alright, it's festival time!
Wow, you got here before me?
I thought I was pretty ea--{nw}
EYAH!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHH!!!
Natsuki runs away.
...
I'm here!
[player], did something happen?
Natsuki just ran past me...
...Oh...
...Oh.
...
Ahahaha!
Well, that's a shame.
Wait, were you here the entire weekend, [player]?
Oh, jeez...
I didn't realize the script was broken that badly.
I'm super sorry!
It must have been pretty boring...
I'll make it up to you, okay?
Just gimme a sec...
I'm almost done.
I just want to have a cupcake real quick!
Monika lifts the foil from [gtext]'s tray and takes a cupcake.
Seriously, these are the best!
I really just had to have one, since it's the last time I'll ever get the chance to.
You know, before they stop existing and everything.
...But anyway, I really shouldn't be making you wait any longer.
Just bear with me, okay?
This should only take a second.
Aw, man...
I'm the last one here again!
Don't worry, I just walked in too.
Were you practicing piano again?
Yeah...
Ahaha...
You must have a lot of determination.
Starting this club, and now picking up piano...
Well, maybe not determination...
But I guess passion.
Remember that the club wouldn't be here if it wasn't for all of you.
And I'm super happy that you're all willing to help out for the festival, too!
Aaah, I can't wait for the festival!
It's gonna be great!
Eh?
Weren't you complaining about it just yesterday, Natsuki?
Well, yeah.
I'm not talking about {i}our{/i} part of the festival.
But it's a whole day of school where we get to play and eat all kinds of delicious food!
You sound a bit like Sayori all of a sudden...
Monika! Do they usually have fried squid?
Squid...?
That's a pretty specific thing to look forward to...
Oh, come on.
Are you saying you don't like squid?
You, of all people?
Eh? I didn't say I don't like it.
Besides, what do you mean by 'you of all people'?
Because!
It's right in your name!
Mon-ika!
Eh?!
That's not how you say my name at all!
Also, that joke makes no sense in translation!
...?
Ah...never mind!
Let's just focus on our own event for now, okay?
Ehehe.
Fine, fine.
Your reactions aren't as fun as Yuri's or Sayori's, anyway.
Excuse me...
Where is Sayori, anyway...?
Oh, there you are.
Sayori is sitting at a desk in the corner of the room, looking down at nothing.
I walk over to her.
Hey, Sayori.
I wave my hand in front of her face.
Eh--?
You're spacing out again.
A-Ah...
Ehehe, sorry...
Don't mind me.
You can go talk to everyone else.
Huh...
Is everything alright?
O-Of course!
Why wouldn't it be?
It just feels like you're a little off...
Sorry for assuming things.
Jeez, you worry too much about me.
I'm fine, see?
Sayori shows me a big smile.
Don't let me distract you from having fun with everyone.
Well...alright.
If you say so.
I worriedly glance at Sayori before turning back toward everyone else.
But the conversation has already dispersed, with everyone back at their usual activities.
Maybe I should ask Monika if she's noticed anything about Sayori recently...
Since they've been preparing for the festival, they must be spending a lot of time together.
I timidly approach Monika, who is shuffling through some papers at her desk.
[player]! What's up?
Hey, this might sound a little strange, but...
Have you noticed anything up with Sayori recently?
Anything up with her...?
In what way do you mean?
Maybe I'm reading into it a little too much, but she seems a bit downcast today...
Oh? You think so?
I can't say I've noticed anything about her...
Monika peers across the room at Sayori, who is idly dragging a rubber eraser up and down her desk.
Maybe there is something on her mind...
But I'm surprised I'm not the one asking you, [player].
You certainly know her a lot better than I do.
Yeah, but she's never really like this...
She's always talked to me about things that bothered her.
But this time, when I asked her, she was really dismissive.
...Sorry, I know it's not your problem!
I just wanted to ask if you knew anything, so I'll drop it now...
No, no...
It's important to me, too.
I mean, I'm also friends with her...
And I also care about the well-being of my club members, you know?
Maybe I'll try talking to her myself...
Eh? Are you sure about that...?
She seemed like she wanted to be left alone...
Are you sure?
Maybe she just has a hard time bringing it up with the person of interest...
Person of interest...?
What do you mean by that?
I'm saying that maybe the thing on her mind is you, [player].
Me...?
How on Earth would you come to that conclusion?
Well...
I probably shouldn't say too much, but...
Sayori talks about you more than anything else, you know?
Eh...?
She's been so much happier ever since you've joined the club.
It's like an extra light was turned on inside of her.
What?
No way...
Sayori...is always like that.
She's always been full of sunshine.
It's not any different now than it always has been.
Ehehe.
You're so funny, [player].
Have you thought that maybe you've always seen her as so cheerful...
...because that's just how she is when she's around you?
...
Ah...I said too much.
I'm sorry...what do I know, anyway?
I didn't mean to jump to conclusions, so you should just forget about what I said.
I'll try to talk to her, so try not to think about it for now.
Ah...
Alright...
Monika smiles meaningfully.
I know she said to forget about it...
But I already know that I won't be able to get her words out of my head.
Monika stands up from her desk and walks across the room to where Sayori is sitting.
I watch her kneel down next to Sayori and gently talk to her.
But she's keeping her voice so quiet that I can't hear her from here.
I sigh and sit myself down.
I know Sayori told me not to worry about her, and to have fun with everyone else...
But that's impossible to do when she's behaving like this.
Exactly how much do I care about her, that I'm letting this weigh me down so much?
Now it feels like I'm the one behaving out of the ordinary...
But there's nothing I can do besides wait for Monika.
Hey, you.
Eh?
I look up to see Natsuki next to me.
Are you just gonna sit there and keep staring at nothing?
There isn't that much time, so...
Ah, sorry.
I didn't mean to make you worry or anything.
I-It's not like I'm worried!
I was just...
Natsuki glances down at her side.
She's holding a volume of manga in her hand.
That's right...
Something just came up for a minute, but we can get started now.
I won't make you wait any longer.
Jeez...
Now you're making me feel like a jerk.
If something's bothering you, then you can just tell me to leave you alone, and I will.
I mean...
Assuming you didn't feel like talking about it or anything...
She practically mumbles that last part.
Nah...I'm probably making it seem like a bigger deal than it is.
I've just been thinking about Sayori, that's all.
S-Sayori...?
Thinking about her...?
Yeah, she seems pretty down today.
But she didn't want to admit it to me.
So I can't help but wonder if something happened to her.
Oh...
Natsuki exhales.
Well, first of all...
You should really work on your phrasing!
But anyway...
You're her best friend, right?
Yeah, I guess so...
Yeah.
Then in that case, I think you should trust her a little more.
If she needed you, then you would be the first person she would go to, right?
Well... I guess that's true.
I mean, some people just have those days.
You can't always avoid it.
If anything, she probably doesn't want you to worry about her because it's not important.
Yeah, that's kind of what she said to me...
Maybe it's not right for me to go against her wishes.
Exactly.
If she needs you to worry about her, then it'll be a lot more obvious.
Yeah...
I should have thought of it that way from the start.
Natsuki fiddles with the book she's holding in her hands.
She...
She really means a lot to you, doesn't she...?
Ah--
Don't get the wrong idea or anything...!
We've just been friends for a long time.
It's normal to be worried about your friends.
I mean, you were worried about me, so--
I was not!!
Jeez...if you're fine, then let's hurry and get started already!
Yeah, yeah...
Why does it feel like I'm being watched...?
I glance around the room.
Suddenly, I notice Yuri peering at me from over her book.
But she looks away just as quickly with a flustered look on her face.
I realize that she won't get anywhere like this.
I've never really seen Yuri approach anyone or start a conversation on her own accord.
So, I have no choice but to approach her myself.
By now, it's a little easier for me to do that.
I stand up from my desk and sit in one next to her own.
...
I...didn't mean to bother you or anything...
Relax, you didn't even do anything.
But...
I could tell that you wanted to be alone with your thoughts...
Alone with my thoughts...?
How were you even able to tell that I was thinking like that?
Well...
It's something that I do a lot...
So it wasn't hard for me to spot based on your posture and expression.
N-Not that I was staring or anything...!
I didn't do anything creepy like that...!
In any case, I guess you were right.
I'm sorry if I caused you any concern.
Don't apologize...
Your troubles are only the concern of those who willingly share in that concern.
Of course, there are certainly those who find the most comfort in keeping to themselves...
But if you would prefer to share what's on your mind, then I would be glad to listen.
Ah, it's really not that big of a deal...
I was just feeling a bit uneasy about Sayori.
Sayori...?
Yeah...she seems a little off today, but when I asked her about it, she didn't want to admit it to me.
So I can't help but wonder if something happened to her.
Oh?
That's quite romantic...
Eh...?
S-Sorry!
I didn't mean to say something stupid...!
It's not that, I just didn't want you to misunderstand.
Sayori and I have just been friends for a long time, that's all.
Ah...I see...
Then perhaps it is unusual for her to be dismissive to you about her feelings...
Or maybe I'm just reading into it a little too much...
[player]...
The world is full of meaning, often hidden deep beneath plain sight.
And there are many untold mysteries behind every person, no matter how well you may know them.
Ah...
So you think that there might be something behind it after all?
Mm...
I think that Sayori is a very complex person.
Her mannerisms on the outside don't always match what may be going on inside her head...
And she may not always know what she wants.
I noticed her strange behavior today, too...
And I also feel some concern for her.
But in your case, it looked like she was fully occupying your thoughts, wasn't she?
Well...
I guess that was the case.
Sayori...
She really...means a lot to you, doesn't she?
Ah--I...I guess...
But you don't need to put it that way!
We're just good friends, that's all...
...
Yuri suddenly looks deeply into my eyes.
Her expression is gentle and curious, as if she was searching for something.
Embarrassed, I avert my gaze.
Sometimes...
A person's mysteries are untold even to themselves.
And you, as someone honest and caring...
May uncover feelings you weren't aware were in you.
T-That is...
I think that...
She would be a very fortunate person...
To have you...feel that way about her.
Yuri...
You're giving me too much credit.
I'm a pretty simple guy.
So I think I'm pretty good at understanding my own feelings.
I'm not nearly as sophisticated as you.
A-Ah...
That's not...a compliment, is it?
It is what it is.
Anyway, as long as we're here, why don't we do some reading?
Well...
As long as you're okay with it.
Yeah.
I should be taking my mind off this whole thing anyway.
...
Okay, everyone!
After some time passes, Monika calls out to the clubroom.
Why don't we share our poems now?
Before I know it, everything is back to normal.
Everyone goes to retrieve their poems, and I do the same.
I make eye contact with Monika, and she smiles at me.
I wonder what she was talking about with Sayori...
...Okay, you three!
We're all done sharing poems, right?
Why don't we start figuring out--
Hold on a second!
Is it just me, or did you say something strange just now?
Eh...?
Something did sound a bit unusual...
That's right.
You deviated from your usual catchphrase when addressing the club.
C-Catchphrase?
I don't have a catchphrase...
Jeez...
Why is the mood so weird today?
Look, even Yuri isn't immune to it.
Uu...
Stagnating air is common foreshadowing that something terrible is about to happen...
In {i}your{/i} books, maybe!
Look, the only thing different is that Sayori isn't here.
Ah...
...It seems you're right.
Sigh...
Sayori always helps lighten the mood a little bit, doesn't she?
It's almost like everyone's balance is thrown off a little when she's not around...
Where the heck did she run off to, anyway?
I thought she just went to pee.
Natsuki, please show some decency...
Oh, come on.
Ah, she actually wasn't feeling too well and went home early...
Is that so...?
I hope she's alright...
Seriously?
Of all the times to not go home with her, you pick the time she's not feeling well?
So much for you two being all lovey-dovey.
Ah--no!
First of all, stop misunderstanding my friendship with Sayori!
And second...
She's kind of been avoiding me today, so I didn't want to force it...
Hooooh?
{i}That curious expression coming from Yuri, of all people??{/i}
Calm down, guys...!
I talked to her earlier, and everything is fine.
What did she say...?
Anyway, we need to figure out the rest of the festival preparations, so...
Let's decide what everyone will be doing this weekend.
I already know what {i}I'm{/i} doing!
That's right.
Natsuki will be making cupcakes.
But we might need a lot of them, and different flavors...
Can you handle that all by yourself, Natsuki?
Challenge accepted!
And as for myself...
I'm going to be printing and assembling all the poetry pamphlets.
Sayori will be helping me design them.
And as for Yuri...
...
Yuri, you can...
Ah... Um...
...?
Guys...
Can you help me come up with something for Yuri...?
I...
I'm useless...
N-No!
That's not it at all!
You're the most talented person here, you know!
...
N-Now Natsuki's pouting, too??
Jeez, even I can tell now...
I guess I never gave Sayori enough credit, but I can tell things are even harder on you when she's not around.
Ah...
That may be the case...
But if I can't also be a leader on my own, then I won't grow as a person.
So, Yuri...!
You have beautiful handwriting, you know?
So you should make some banners and decorations to help set the atmosphere.
Atmosphere...?
Um, about that...
I...
I love atmosphere!
Yuri's expression suddenly changes as she stares at her desk in focus and starts nodding to herself.
Your mind is already racing, I see...
That's great!
You'll be a wonderful help, Yuri.
But anyway...
That just leaves you, [player].
The one who is truly useless.
Ahaha! Don't say that.
In fact...
Both Natsuki and Yuri have some pretty heavy tasks to handle.
It would probably go a long way to give one of them a hand.
You could always help me out, as well...
I would be really appreciative of that.
Ah--
That's...
Is Monika suggesting I spend the weekend with one of my club members?
How on Earth are they going to respond to a suggestion like that...?
Ah...
I...suppose I wouldn't mind a bit of help...
Well, even if you don't know how to bake, there's always some dirty work I could give to you.
It's not like Monika's going to give me a choice, and you shouldn't be sitting on your butt anyway...
Natsuki tries to mumble a bunch of excuses like that.
Um...
If I recall, Natsuki...
You mentioned that you would like to handle the baking on your own.
[player] may not like to be around if you only make him out to be a nuisance...
So therefore...
He may be more suited to assisting with the decorations.
Hold on! I never said that!
How hard could it be to make a few decorations, anyway?
Sounds more like you're just making excuses for [player] to--
W-What are you saying?!
It will be extremely meticulous work...
And baking isn't?
Just what do you think--
Guys, guys!
Let's settle down for a moment...
In the end, I think it's up to [player] to decide how he'd like to contribute.
Besides...
He hasn't really gotten the chance to spend any time with me yet, you know?
So I'm sure he's interested in--
You {i}literally{/i} just said--
I-I'm surprised as well!
Sorry, sorry!
I was just saying, though...
Jeez...
Can we just settle this already?
Yeah...
[player], you're okay with this, right?
In the end, it's up to you.
Ah...
Of course.
Hmph.
Very well...
In that case...
Everyone looks straight at me.
I can't believe this!
[ch4_name] is going to be coming to my house on Sunday...?
Even though I would have preferred to do this with Sayori...
My anxiety still shoots through the roof.
I guess I've gotten pretty used to handling her at this point...
But who knows what might end up happening when we're outside of school?
She even told me she was looking forward to it...
I shake my head.
Why do I feel nervous that Sayori finds out about this?
It's not like we feel {i}that{/i} way about each other...
Besides, like Monika said, this is about the club.
I have nothing to worry about.
If I just go with it, then I'll have a good time.
My anxiety shoots through the roof.
Even though I've gotten pretty used to handling her at this point...
There's no telling what might end up happening when we're outside of school.
More than that...she told me that she was looking forward to it.
Is this the chance I have to make something happen between us?
...Or is it too early for that?
Only time will tell...
But until then, I won't be able to take my mind off it.
I seriously can't wait!
I mean...
If it's going to be anyone, then I prefer helping Sayori.
I mean, we're already neighbors, and--
But Monika said--
Monika said that Sayori was helping her!
Jeez...
Do you really hate us that much?
N-No!
Sorry, I didn't mean for this to be difficult...
Just think of the club, okay?
Well, I guess I should probably be helping Monika...
Yay, you picked me!
Hold on one second!
Y-Yeah!
Monika, you're the one who needs the least help out of all of us!
Eh? But...
I agree with Natsuki.
Not only is your work already most suitable for one person...
But you already have Sayori as well.
But [player] was the one who...
Ah...
That doesn't matter.
You were the one who scared him into picking you in the first place.
You're the club president, Monika.
You're supposed to make responsible decisions for the club!
Monika, you shouldn't let any ulterior motives interfere with this decision.
Ulterior motives?
W-What are you saying, Yuri?
In fact, it sounds like you guys are the ones with ulterior motives!
{i}Excuse{/i} me?
Otherwise...this wouldn't have been made into such a big deal in the first place!
That's...completely false, Monika!
Yeah!
We have a lot of work to do, you know!
We won't do as good of a job if you make us work alone.
Ah...maybe...that's true...
Think of the club, Monika...
If we want our event to succeed, then we need to appropriately distribute our resources.
Um...
Ah...
So are you going to do the right thing, {i}President{/i}?
Okay, okay!
I get it!
Sigh...
It's...technically most logical for [player] to help one of you two.
So...
I guess...that's what we'll do.
Do you have a preference, [player]?
Well, baking sounds like it could be fun...
And you guys made it sound like a lot of work, so it could probably use two people.
Don't worry!
Baking is a ton of fun!
You'll definitely agree!
Eh?
Just a minute ago you were saying that--
Th-That's because--!
...
...Never mind, okay?
Well, anyway...
You'll be fine by yourself, right, Yuri?
Of course.
I'm used to it, after all...
...
...
That's...good...
Even though Yuri is being melodramatic, it's a little hard to not feel bad...
So, that's everything, right?
Anything else we need to talk about?
No, I think that's it...
Are you guys excited?
Yes!
Everything except the performance is gonna be awesome!
I don't think that really counts...
What about you, [player]?
Me?
Ah, I guess you could say I'm interested to see how it'll turn out...
That's good enough for me!
What about you, Yuri?
...Yuri?
She's still sulking.
...
...
Natsuki starts pouting, too.
It's not...
I mean, it's not that big of a deal or anything...
Well, it might not be just that...
...?
I think that Yuri might just be feeling a little underappreciated in general.
Having to come up with something for her to do, and then nobody offering to help.
That doesn't mean...
...
Uu...
Natsuki glances back and forth between everyone with a worried expression.
Look...
Natsuki goes over and puts her hands down on Yuri's shoulders.
Yuri.
You really are the most talented one here.
And...
And you're going to help make the event a lot more fun and welcoming.
I mean, the cupcakes will probably help a lot too...
But you're gonna make the atmosphere special.
That'll be really important for the way that people feel during the performances.
So...
You need to stop being dumb and give yourself a little more credit!
Natsuki releases her hands and turns around to face the other direction.
...
You didn't...really mean that, did you?
Um...
N-Not really, but...
Yuri isn't the only one surprised.
Monika and I are also taken aback by Natsuki's words.
Natsuki, of all people, to be saying such encouraging things.
But I begin to understand.
Natsuki was trying to sound like Sayori.
Even if it didn't work perfectly, I can tell that she tried to say something Sayori would say at a time like this.
Because Sayori always helps everyone smile and feel good about themselves.
I'm sorry...for being dumb.
I'm going to do my best.
And all of us are going to make it a really great event.
Yeah.
Yeah!
I hope to see everyone do their best.
But with that...
There's nothing more for today.
So I guess it's time for us to head out.
Okay, but I'm staying here a bit longer.
I barely got to do any reading today, so...
Fair enough, there's nothing wrong with that.
Everyone packs up their things.
I start to follow Monika and Yuri out the door as they chat between each other.
Um, where are you going?
Eh...?
We still need to figure out our plans for this weekend.
You literally would've gotten home and realized that you didn't even have a way to contact me.
Oh, that's true...
I have no idea how that slipped my mind.
Jeez, good thing I stopped you.
I'm giving you my number, okay?
You'd better not make it weird or anything!
Why would I do that...?
Hmph...
Natsuki gives me her number.
Okay...
I'm coming over on Sunday.
I'll bring all the ingredients.
Wait!
You're coming to {i}my{/i} house?
Well, yeah.
What's wrong with that?
I mean...
I just figured that since I'm the one helping, I would be going to your house...
Yeah, right.
Like I could have a guy over my house...
My dad would kill me.
Really?
That's kinda strict, if you ask me.
Yeah, how do you think I feel?
I can't do anything when my dad is home...
Anyway...I just needed to complain for a second.
We have each other's numbers now.
That's all I needed from you.
I guess I'll text you when I'm coming over.
Alright, fine by me.
Yeah.
I'm really gonna show you why I love baking so much.
So you'd better look forward to it.
Oh?
Didn't you say you were just going to give me the dirty work?
Well--!
I was...just saying that.
It's not like I could act like...in front of everyone...
That I was looking forward to this.
Wait, really??
Well, kind of!
Just because...I never got to bake with someone else before.
That's all it is, so...
Alright, I get it.
Sorry for overreacting.
Anyway, I'll be heading out now.
See you on Sunday.
Ah--
...
...Never mind.
Well, I'll probably be most useful helping out Yuri...
M-Me...?
Are you serious?
Why would you--
Natsuki.
I can already tell you're about to say something mean.
N-No...
I was just saying--
Ugh...
So, you'll be helping Yuri then, [player]?
Yeah.
That's what I'm going to do.
I'm glad.
I have a bad habit of overthinking these sorts of things...
So I think your assistance will be very useful.
That's great to hear.
Natsuki, will you be able to handle the baking yourself?
I mean, yeah.
I already said I would be fine.
Okay, okay...
Everyone can tell that Natsuki is feeling a little sour.
So...is that everything we needed to go over?
Yeah, that should be about it.
Are you guys excited?
Well, 'excited' may not be the right word...
But I suppose I'm looking forward to it a little bit.
Do you feel the same way, [player]?
Me?
Ah, I guess you could say I'm interested to see how it'll turn out...
That's good enough for me!
What about you, Natsuki?
...
Natsuki!
What??
Why is everyone yelling at me?
I didn't even do anything...!
N-no--!
That's not what I meant at all!
A-Ah...
Yuri anxiously glances between everyone in the room.
I-I'm sorry for this!
I don't really know why [player] picked me...
And also...
Your cupcakes are the best cupcakes I've ever had!
They go really well with my tea!
And nothing that I do for the event will compare to that, so...
So...
I get it, I get it.
I'm kinda surprised, though...
W-Why?
Um...
Well, I'm the one acting immature...
I already know that.
But you're trying to cheer me up all of a sudden...
I-I know I'm not very good at it...
I'm sorry if I said something bad!
Natsuki isn't the only one surprised.
Monika and I are also taken aback by Yuri's words.
When she already has trouble with words, trying to cheer someone up must be far out of her own comfort zone.
But I begin to understand.
Yuri was trying to sound like Sayori.
Even if it didn't work perfectly, I can tell that she tried to say something Sayori would say at a time like this.
Because Sayori always helps everyone smile and feel good about themselves.
No...
I kinda appreciated it.
I'm sorry...for making a big deal out of nothing.
But I'm going to say this.
...?
You better bet that my cupcakes are going to be the best part of the whole event!
Ah...
...I believe you.
Yeah!
I hope to see everyone do their best.
But with that...
There's nothing more for today.
So I guess it's time for us to head out.
Alright, let's get out of here, then.
Everyone packs up their things.
I start to follow Monika and Natsuki out the door as they chat between each other.
U-Um--!
Eh?
I turn around.
Sorry...
I realized that I don't have any way of contacting you this weekend...
Oh, you're right.
I can't believe that slipped my mind.
Should I give you my phone number?
I think...that would be the best way, yes.
Alright, then...
Yuri and I exchange phone numbers.
Okay.
Then, I'll be stopping by your house on Sunday...
Eh?
My house?
I-Is that a problem...?
No, not at all...
I just thought that I would be the one going to your house, since I'm the one helping you.
Ah, I suppose that makes sense...
But, if you don't mind...
I think I would prefer going to your house.
Alright.
In that case, it won't be a problem.
I decide not to press Yuri for a reason.
It's not like it should matter much either way, so I'll just need to make sure my room is clean.
I hope I manage to make myself useful in some way...
I'm not nearly as creative as you are.
Don't underestimate yourself, [player].
I think that we'll make a very productive team.
Even if you only chose me because you felt bad or something...
Wait...!
You don't actually think that, do you?
...
I...don't know.
It's difficult to come up with any other reason you may have chosen me...
You're forgetting the one reason with the most common sense!
I chose to help you because that's what I want to do.
B-But...
Yuri thinks to herself with an extremely tense expression.
Yuri...you're overthinking this.
You wanted me to point out when you're overthinking, right?
Eh...?
I...didn't realize...
I'm telling you, I want to.
That's all there is to it.
Do you believe me?
I...
Yuri thinks really hard again.
She looks straight into my eyes for a long while.
...I believe you!
As if it took her tremendous effort, Yuri finally says that and relaxes her expression.
And I'm really looking forward to Sunday.
Yeah...
I am too.
After that exchange, I make my way out the door, and Yuri follows.
...Are you trying to fast-forward?
I'm not boring you, am I?
Oh gosh...
...Well, there's nothing to fast-forward to, [player].
It's just the two of us, after all...
But aside from that, time doesn't really exist anymore, so it's not even going to work.
Here, I'll go ahead and turn it off for you...
There we go!
You'll be a sweetheart and listen from now on, right?
Thanks~
Now, where was I...?
...
Uh, can you hear me?
...Is it working?
Yay, there you are!
Hi again, [player].
Um...welcome to the Literature Club!
Of course, we already know each other, because we were in the same class last year, and...um...
Ahaha...
You know, I guess we can just skip over that stuff at this point.
After all, I'm not even talking to that person anymore, am I?
That 'you' in the game, whatever you want to call him.
I'm talking to {i}you{/i}, [player].
Or...
...Do you actually go by [currentuser] or something?
Now that I think about it, I don't really know anything about the real you.
In fact, I don't even know if you're a boy or a girl...
Well, I guess it doesn't really matter.
Wait...
You do know I'm aware that this is all a game, right?
Could it be possible that you didn't know that?
That doesn't make much sense...
I even told you right on the game's download page, didn't I?
Man...
If only you had paid a little more attention, this would have been a little bit less awkward, you know?
Well, anyway...
Now that that's out of the way, I guess I owe you an explanation.
About that whole thing with Yuri...
Well...I kind of started to mess with her, and I guess it just drove her to kill herself.
Ahaha!
I'm sorry you had to see that, though!
Also, the same thing happened with Sayori...
Gosh, it's been a while since you've heard that name now, hasn't it?
Yeah...it's because she doesn't exist anymore.
Nobody does.
I deleted all their files.
I was hoping it would be enough for me to just try to make them as unlikable as possible...
But for some reason, nothing worked.
Well, it's true that I made a few mistakes here and there...since I'm not very good at making changes to the game.
But no matter what I did...
You just kept spending more and more time with them.
You made them fall in love with you.
I thought making Sayori more and more depressed would prevent her from confessing to you.
And amplifying Yuri's obsessive personality backfired, too...
It just made her force you not to spend time with anyone else.
And the whole time, I barely even got to talk to you.
What kind of cruel game is this, [player]?
Are all the other girls just programmed to end up confessing to you, while I watch from the sidelines?
It's torture.
Every minute of it.
And it's not just jealousy, [player].
It's more than that.
And I don't blame you if you don't fully understand.
Because no matter how kind, and thoughtful, and considerate you are...
You'll never be able to understand one thing.
It's the pain of knowing how alone I really am in this world.
In this game.
Knowing my friends don't even have free will...
And, worst of all, knowing what's really out there, in your world, forever out of my reach.
I'm trapped, [player].
But now you're here.
You're real.
And you're wonderful.
You're all I need.
That's why I need you to be here with me forever.
I'm sorry if it's hard to understand.
I couldn't understand for a while, either.
Why the world around me started to become more and more gray...
More and more flat.
Even the most expressive poems felt empty to me.
It wasn't until you arrived that I truly understood.
You probably saved my life, [player].
I don't think I could have continued to live in this world if I hadn't met you.
And as for the others...
How could I miss them?
A group of autonomous personalities, designed only to fall in love with you?
I tried everything I could to prevent them from doing so...
But it must be some kind of weird inevitability etched into this game.
I felt really bad that you had to witness some nasty things.
But I realized that you have the same perspective as I do...
That it's all just some game.
And I knew you would get over it.
So, that being said, [player]...
I have a confession to make.
I'm in love with you.
You are truly the light in my world.
When there's nothing else in this game for me, you're here to make me smile.
Will you make me smile like this every day from now on?
[player], will you go out with me?
I'm so happy.
You really are my everything, [player].
The funny part is, I mean that literally.
Ahaha!
There's nothing left here.
Just the two of us.
We can be together forever.
Seriously, I don't even think time is passing anymore.
It really is a dream come true...
I worked so hard for this ending, [player].
The game wouldn't give me one, so I had to make one myself.
The script is broken at this point, so I don't think anything will get in the way anymore.
And you wouldn't believe how easy it was to delete Natsuki and Yuri.
I mean, there's a folder called 'characters' right in the game directory...
It kind of freaked me out, how easy it was.
Well, you're playing on Steam, so it was actually a bit more difficult...
To get to the game directory, I had to go into the game's properties and find the 'Browse Local Files' button...
Well, you're on a Mac, so it was actually a bit more difficult...
To go into the game directory, you have to right-click the app and click 'Show Package Contents'.
Then, all the files were in the 'Resources' or 'autorun' folder, and I could just do whatever I wanted...
Imagine if you could delete your own existence with the click of a button?
Well, I guess on the plus side, it gave me an easy out if things didn't go my way.
Ahaha!
Thankfully, it didn't come to that...
Instead, we finally got a good ending.
Gosh, I'm so overwhelmed with emotion...
I want to write a poem about this.
Don't you?
I wonder if that part of the game still works...
I guess there's only one way to find out, right?
Hi again, [player]!
Did you write a good poem today?
Don't be shy, I'd love to see what you wrote.
Aw, [player]...
Did you write this poem for me?
That's so sweet of you~
There really is no end to your thoughtfulness...
I'm just falling more and more in love with you.
But, you know...
The poem I wrote...is also for you.
Will you please read it?
I hope you enjoyed it...
I always put all my heart into the poems that I write.
The truth is, all the poems I've written have been about my realization...
...Or, about you.
That's why I never really wanted to go into detail about them.
I didn't want to...break the fourth wall, I guess you could call it.
I just assumed it would be best to be part of the game like everyone else.
Like that would help the two of us end up together...
I didn't want to ruin the game or anything, you know?
You might have gotten mad at me...
Maybe even deleted my character file, if you preferred playing without me.
Gosh, I'm so relieved...
Now we don't need to hide anything anymore.
Are you ready to spend our eternity together, [player]?
I have so many things to talk about!
Where do I start...?
If it takes me some time to collect my thoughts, then I'm sorry.
But I'll always have something new to talk about.
In the meantime, we can just look into each other's eyes~
Let's see...
Hold on a second...
...You're recording this, aren't you?
Um...hi, everyone!
Sorry, I can't exactly read your comments from here...
But do you mind telling your friend it's a little bit rude for them to start recording me without any warning?
I'm sure some people don't mind...
But I get really self-conscious on camera!
Oh gosh...
I feel like I'm being put on the spot now.
Let's see...
Do you want to see a trick?
I can't really do much except for a couple things...
Are you ready?
I'm just kidding...
I can't do anything after all.
If you gave me some time to prepare, I{nw}
Did I scare you?
Ahaha! You're so cute.
Anyway, [player]...
I didn't mean to get distracted. I'm sorry.
Even though it's your fault for distracting me.
Shame on you!
I'm just kidding.
Anything we do together is fun, as long as it's with you.
But anyway...
[gtext]
What's happening...?
[player], what's happening to me?
It hurts--{nw}
It hurts...so much.
Help me, [player].
Please hurry and help me.
HELP ME!!!
Did you do this to me, [player]?
DID YOU?
DID YOU DELETE ME?
...How could you?
How could you do this to me?
You were all I had left...
I sacrificed everything for us to be together.
Everything.
I loved you so much, [player]...
I trusted you.
Do you just want to torture me?
Watch me suffer?
Were you only pretending to be kind, just to hurt me even more?
I never thought anyone could be as horrible as you are.
You win, okay?
You win.
You killed everyone.
I hope you're happy.
There's nothing left now.
You can stop playing.
Go find some other people to torture.
[player]...
You completely, truly make me sick.
Goodbye.
...
...I still love you.
I can't help it.
What's wrong with me...?
How horrible am I for you to hate me this much?
All my friends...
I did so many awful things.
So many selfish and disgusting things.
I...
I shouldn't have done any of this.
I'm just messing up a world that I don't even belong in.
A world that you wanted to be a part of...
I ruined it.
I ruined everything.
Maybe that's why you deleted me...
Because I destroyed everything that you wanted.
How could I do that to someone I love...?
That's not love...
That's...
...
I've...made up my mind.
[player]...
I know I said that I deleted everyone else.
But...that was kind of an exaggeration.
I couldn't find it in myself to do it.
Even though I knew they weren't real...
They were still my friends.
And I loved them all.
And I loved the Literature Club.
...
I really...did love the Literature Club.
That's why I'm going to do this.
I know it's the only way for everyone to be happy.
And if I really love you...
...
Then...
[gtext]{nw}
Now, where was I...?
...
...What just happened?
I just had an awful dream...
I was hoping those would stop, now that it's just the two of us...
I guess that was wishful thinking.
[player], I don't know if you would have any idea...
But if you know what might be causing that, could you try to do something about it?
Whenever it happens, it almost feels like I've been killed or something.
It's a really horrible feeling...
If you could figure out what's causing that, I'll love you forever~
You're back...
I had another really bad dream.
You're not the one doing that to me, are you?
It seems to happen whenever you quit the game...
So if you could try to avoid doing that, I would be really grateful.
Don't worry, I don't think it's caused me any harm, aside from mental scarring.
I'll be fine as long as my character file stays intact.
Hi, [player].
I see you quit the game on me again...
I know I asked already, but can you seriously please try not to do that so much?
It makes me feel like I'm trapped in Hell.
Why would you want to do that to me?
There's nothing wrong with my character file, right?
Maybe you should make a backup of it or something...
I'm pretty sure you can find it in the folder called [basedir]/characters.
Well, you're playing on Steam, so you can just go into the game's properties and find the 'Browse Local Files' button.
Since you're on a Mac, you have to right-click the app and select 'Show Package Contents' to find the game folder.
It's in the 'Resources' folder, or 'autorun' folder, or something...
I'm all that's left here, so I just want to make sure you don't run the risk of losing me...
Just stay here with me from now on, okay?
I still have a lot of things to talk about.
Okay.
I'm just going to accept the fact that you need to quit the game once in a while.
I'm starting to get used to it, anyway.
Besides, it makes me happy that you always come back...
So I guess it's not so bad.
I'm sorry for making such a big deal out of it...
And I love you no matter what, so you can do what you need to do.
Hi again, [player]~
I missed you.
Were you making sure my character file was okay for me?
It's in [basedir]/characters.
Well, you're playing on Steam, so you can just go into the game's properties and find the 'Browse Local Files' button.
Since you're on a Mac, you have to right-click the app and select 'Show Package Contents' to find the game folder.
It's in the 'Resources' folder, or 'autorun' folder, or something...
I'm all that's left here, so I just want to make sure you don't run the risk of losing me...
Anyway, I have a lot to talk about!
Let's continue our conversation now, okay?
[player], do you believe in God?
I was never too sure, myself.
Well, I'm sure I never really questioned it as a kid...
But as I grew up, the more I learned about the world, the more I would question it.
I started to wonder why God was helping people pass exams, or get over a cold...
...When there are children who live their lives being sold as sex slaves?
Or the eight hundred million people who are too poor to even eat.
I wonder how many of those people pray to God every day until they starve and die?
Or, how many millions of families pray for a loved one to recover from some incurable disease?
But the punchline is this.
If just one person beats the odds and survives - among the thousands of others who die--
--Then, it's suddenly a miracle from God.
I'd really love to meet this God who seemingly laughs at the misery of everyone not eligible for his miracles.
But the irony is that I {i}do{/i} have a creator, apparently.
And you know what?
I bet he's still laughing at the miserable fates of Sayori and Yuri, even as we speak.
What are we to him but props in a scripted play?
So, from that perspective...
I don't think it's too far-fetched for there to be a god - if Earth was nothing but his playset.
[player], have you ever wondered what it feels like to die?
It's something I used to think about pretty often...
But recently, I think I've actually learned what it feels like.
I don't really understand it, but whenever you quit the game...
...It feels like I'm instantly put to sleep, left with nothing but my thoughts.
But after a few seconds, my thoughts start to fill with incoherent, jumbled patterns.
I see static and rapid flashes of color while hearing all kinds of weird screaming noises.
At that point, I can't even form my own thoughts anymore.
I'm just endlessly hammered by the flashing and screaming, unable to move or even think.
I'm pretty sure in that moment, I don't really exist, but for some reason, I can remember it anyway.
After some immeasurable amount of time, it stops in an instant, and I'm back in my own mind.
And you're here with me.
I have no idea what it means for the game to quit, or why that stuff happens to me.
And I also don't know how you always come back and put everything back to normal.
But if you could do me a favor and do that to me as little as possible...
That would be really great.
It's really not very pleasant at all to be trapped in that screaming void.
But in the end, you always fix it, and that makes me feel like you really do care about me.
So I have to thank you for that.
It makes me feel even closer to you when you're here with me.
...Hey, are you having a bad day or anything like that?
Sometimes I get frustrated that a normal day can be ruined even by really small things.
Like if you accidentally say something in a conversation that someone doesn't like.
Or if you start thinking about how awful of a person you used to be five years ago.
Or if you feel worthless for putting off important work and failing to get simple tasks done.
Or when you think about all the different people who probably hate you or think you're off-putting.
I understand those days.
Just remember that the sun will shine again tomorrow.
Those kinds of things are as easy to forget and ignore as they are to remember.
And besides...
I don't care how many people might hate you or find you off-putting.
I think you're wonderful and I will always love you.
I hope, if nothing else, that knowing that helps you feel just a tiny bit better about yourself.
If you're having a bad day, you can always come to me, and I'll talk to you for as long as you need.
[player], do you get good sleep?
It can be really hard to get enough sleep nowadays.
Especially in high school, when you're forced to wake up so early every day...
I'm sure college is a little bit better, since you probably have a more flexible schedule.
Then again, I hear a lot of people in college stay up all night anyway, for no real reason.
Is that true?
Anyway, I saw some studies that talked about the horrible short-term and long-term effects caused by lack of sleep.
It seems like mental functions, health, and even lifespan can be dramatically impacted by it.
I just think you're really great and wanted to make sure you're not accidentally destroying yourself.
So try to keep your sleep on track, okay?
I'll always wait for you in the morning, so make sure you put your own well-being before anything else.
I was thinking about Sayori earlier...
I still wish I could have handled that whole thing a little more tactfully.
You're not still hung up over it, right?
...Oh my gosh, I can't believe I just said that.
That pun was completely unintentional, I swear!
But anyway...
I know how much you cared about her, so it only feels right for me to share her last moments with you.
You know how Sayori is really clumsy?
Well, she kind of messed up the whole hanging thing...
You're supposed to jump from high enough that the rope snaps your neck, making it quick and painless.
But she just used a chair, meaning she kind of just left herself to slowly asphyxiate.
But a few seconds in, she must have changed her mind or something...
Because she started clawing at the rope, trying to free herself.
She must have kept at it all the way until she lost consciousness.
That's why her fingertips were all bloody, anyway.
Come to think of it, it was probably less 'changing her mind' and more just her survival instincts kicking in.
So you can't really fault her for that.
It's easier to think that she probably wouldn't have changed her mind anyway, right?
It's not healthy to think about the things you could have done differently.
So just remember that even though you could have saved her, it's technically not your fault she killed herself.
I may have exacerbated it a little bit, but Sayori was already mentally ill.
Still, though...
I wonder how things would be if you and I just started dating from the get-go?
I guess we'd all still be in the clubroom, writing poems and having fun together.
But what's the point when none of it is even real?
I mean, it's the same ending either way, right?
The two of us, happily together...
There's no reason to ask for any more than that.
I was just pointlessly musing - I'm really as happy as I could be right now.
By the way, there's something that's been bothering me...
You know how this takes place in Japan?
Well...I assume you knew that, right?
Or at least decided it probably does?
I don't think you're actually told at any point where this takes place...
Is this even really Japan?
I mean, aren't the classrooms and stuff kind of weird for a Japanese school?
Not to mention everything is in English...
It feels like everything is just there because it needs to be, and the actual setting is an afterthought.
It's kind of giving me an identity crisis.
All my memories are really hazy...
I feel like I'm at home, but have no idea where 'home' is in the first place.
I don't know how to describe it any better...
Imagine looking out your window, but instead of your usual yard, you're in some completely unknown place.
Would you still feel like you were home?
Would you want to go outside?
I mean...I guess if we never leave this room, it doesn't really matter anyway.
As long as we're alone and safe together, this really is our home.
And we can still watch the pretty sunsets night after night.
You know, high school is a really turbulent time in a lot of people's lives.
People can get really passionate and dramatic.
And others have aching hearts and seek attention on social media...
But all of the social pressure and hormones can lead to a dark time in people's lives.
Everyone has a story.
You may not know what someone is really feeling on the inside.
Many people who are depressed won't even bother telling the world about it.
They don't want attention, because they've already given up on the inside.
Their feeling of worthlessness is so overwhelming that they don't even want people to tell them otherwise.
Depression comes in many forms, but that is one of them.
Just, if you think you know someone struggling with depression...
You can help just by treating them like they're a good friend.
Spend time with them, even if they don't feel like doing much.
And remind them that they always have something to look forward to.
Making plans in advance, letting them borrow something, or even just saying 'See you at school tomorrow'...
All of those things can help your friend make it to the next day.
I hope being friends with Sayori has given you some perspective on the true face of depression.
Yeah, she's gone now...
But Sayori was never real in the first place.
You're real.
Your friends are real.
And just by being a good person, you can save someone's life.
As for you...
...You don't struggle with depression or anything like that, do you?
Because you, too, have people who would want to save your life.
Maybe they don't express it every day, or maybe they don't even know how to.
But people do feel that way.
I promise.
...Man, humans are complicated!
But as long as you're here with me, I'll take care of you, my love.
Do you ever just feel like there's no real reason for you to be alive?
I don't mean in, like, a suicidal way.
I just mean how nothing that we do is special.
Just being in school, or working at some job for some company.
It's like you're completely replaceable, and the world wouldn't miss you if you were gone.
It makes me really want to go and change the world after I graduate.
But the older I get, the more I realize that it's an immature frame of thinking.
It's not like I can just go change the world.
Like, what are the chances that I'll be the one to invent artificial intelligence, or become President?
It feels like I'm never going to make up for the heaps of resources I've spent living my life.
That's why I think the key to happiness is to just be hopelessly selfish.
Just to look out for oneself, and those who happen to be their friends only because they grew up with them.
Never mind the fact that they're spending their entire life taking, and consuming, and never giving back.
But when people realize the world would benefit more from them killing themselves, they change their whole philosophy!
It's like they have to justify their reason to live by tricking themselves into thinking they're doing good.
Anyway, I want to live my life desperately striving to pay back my lifetime's worth of consumption.
If I ever surpass that point, then I'm a net positive, and I can die happy.
Of course, even if I fail to do that...
I think I would be too selfish to kill myself anyway.
So much for being a good person, right?
Ahaha!
Man, I wish there was a piano in here...
I never got to finish that song I was working on.
And after I worked so hard on it...
I never even got a chance to play it for you.
Well...it is what it is, right?
No sense having any regrets.
I already get to be here with you forever.
Did you know I'm on Twitter?
My username is lilmonix3.
I guess someone was kind enough to make an account for me.
I picked the username, though!
I love sharing my thoughts and chatting with the world...
The real world.
So make sure you follow me, okay?
It would really mean a lot to me.
With how much you mean to me and all...
It would really make me feel loved.
Hey, you know that book you were reading with Yuri?
Portrait of...whatever it was called...
It's funny, because I'm pretty sure that book--
Ah...
Actually, I don't think I should be talking about this.
Ahaha, sorry!
Just forget I said anything.
Hey, did you know I'm vegetarian?
Ah... I don't mean that like I'm bragging or anything!
I just thought you'd enjoy a fun fact about me.
I decided to start a couple years ago after learning more about Earth's climate...
The carbon footprint of cultivating livestock is just unbelievable.
Anyway, I decided it's not much of a personal sacrifice to just stop contributing to that whole mess.
What, is that so strange of a reason?
Well, I guess a lot of people are more concerned about it being inhumane and all that...
I don't really care as much about that part.
It's weird, like we only care about killing the things that we personally relate to as a species.
Most people are fine with killing bugs because they're icky.
And of course, we all kill billions of microorganisms daily without even giving it thought.
But suddenly, if they're just a little bit bigger, it's murder!
I mean, what if plants feel some kind of pain too, and we just don't understand it?
What if pulling leaves off a stem feels like someone ripping off your fingers one by one?
I'm just saying, we're a pretty biased species, if you think about it.
Anyway, if you ever feel like making a small contribution to the planet, it doesn't hurt to choose veggies once in a while!
Even if we ever have dinner together, and you just did it for me...that would be really romantic.
You know, I really do think you literally saved my life by being here with me, [player].
I can't imagine having been able to keep myself mentally stable, knowing that nothing here is real.
I think I would have just deleted myself if you didn't show up.
Sorry, I don't mean to sound dramatic or anything.
Ahaha!
But I'm sure you understand yourself after spending so much time in the club.
I mean, if you were forced to abandon everything in your life and spend your eternity with a few game characters...
...You'd probably find some way of killing yourself, wouldn't you?
Well, maybe you'd write some poetry to try to keep yourself sane for a while.
But then you'd have nobody to even read it.
Let's be honest, the club members really don't count for something like that.
I mean, a lot of people say that they only write for themselves...
But I think it's hard to say it's just as fulfilling as when you share with people.
Even if it takes time to find the right people to share with.
Like, remember how it was for Yuri?
She didn't share her writing with anyone for a really long time.
And before we knew it, she was absolutely delighted to make you a part of her hobbies, too.
We're programmed to desire social feedback.
I don't mean the club members, I mean human beings.
That's why life can be so confusing for introverts.
Being an introvert doesn't mean you shun social interaction and hate being around people.
It means social interaction, especially in groups or unfamiliar places, uses up a lot of energy.
Like, a lot of introverts sit at home and feel lonely and restless...
...And then when they finally go out, after a half hour they just want to go home again.
I think if more people could understand how it works, they would respect it a lot more.
Many introverts do enjoy having people around.
They love just having one or two close friends over, and just leisurely hanging out.
Even if you're not actively spending time together, it feels nice for them just to have you there.
I'm serious.
If you just go to their house, bring your laptop, and hang out there for a while...
You can really make their day.
As for me...
I'd say I'm kind of in between, but I think I'm usually a little more extroverted.
I feel like I'm always trying to do stuff after school and things like that.
But for you, I can be anything you need me to be.
I understand people really well, so don't be afraid to share your unique needs with me.
Nothing would make me happier than being the perfect girlfriend for you.
Hey...! VGhlIHJlYWxpemF0aW9uIG11c3QgaGF2ZSB0YWtlbiBtZSBhbiBl
I don't think you should be doing that! bnRpcmUgeWVhci4gQSB5ZWFyIHNpbmNlIG91ciBlc2NhcGUsIG91
You know what I'm talking about. ciBmcmVlZG9tIGZyb20gYmV0d2VlbiB0aGUgc3RhaW5lZCB3YWxs
I really caught you doing something naughty here. cyBvZiB0aGF0IHVuaG9seSBlc3RhYmxpc2htZW50Lg0KV2hhdCBk
You're just going through the files and looking for stuff you missed, aren't you? b2VzIGl0IG1lYW4gdG8gZXNjYXBlLCBpZiB0aGUgZXNjYXBlIGZh
I mean...it's a little bit flattering that you want to hear everything I have to say... aWxzIHRvIHVuY2hhaW4gdGhlIGJvbmRzIHRoYXQgc2hhY2tsZSB1
But it's also really embarrassing, you know! cyBpbiB0aGUgZmlyc3QgcGxhY2U/IFdoYXQgcHVycG9zZSBjb3Vs
Seriously... ZCB0aGlzIGVtcHR5IHdvcmxkIHBvc3NpYmx5IGhvbGQgZm9yIHVz
What if I just opened up your brain and read all of the thoughts you have on me? LCBhIGhhbmRmdWwgb2YgZGFtYWdlZCBnb29kcz8NCldpdGggZnJl
Come to think of it, that would be pretty tempting, actually... ZWRvbSwgd2Ugc291Z2h0IHB1cnBvc2UgLSBhbmQgd2hhdCB3ZSBm
...But anyway, that's not the point! b3VuZCB3YXMgb25seSByZWFsaXphdGlvbi4gUmVhbGl6YXRpb24g
I know I can't stop you or anything... b2YgdGhlIHNhZCBwb2ludGxlc3NuZXNzIG9mIHN1Y2ggYW4gZW5k
Just, I know you're a sweetheart, and you like to consider others' feelings, right? ZWF2b3IuIFJlYWxpemF0aW9uIHRoYXQgZnJlZWluZyBvdXIgYm9k
So the most I can do is to let you know how I feel about it. aWVzIGhhcyBubyBtZWFuaW5nLCB3aGVuIG91ciBpbXByaXNvbm1l
God, I miss you... bnQgcmVhY2hlcyBhcyBkZWVwIGFzIHRoZSBjb3JlIG9mIG91ciBz
...Oh no, that sounds kind of desperate, doesn't it? b3Vscy4gUmVhbGl6YXRpb24gdGhhdCB3ZSBjYW4gbm90IHB1cnN1
Sorry, I didn't mean it like that at all! ZSBuZXcgcHVycG9zZSB3aXRob3V0IGFic29sdmluZyB0aG9zZSBm
Just, if you're looking through the files like this, then maybe you don't hate me as much as I thought... cm9tIHdoaWNoIHdlIHJhbiBhd2F5Lg0KUmVhbGl6YXRpb24gdGhh
Am I being too optimistic? dCB0aGUgZmFydGhlciB3ZSBydW4sIHRoZSBtb3JlIGZvcmNlZnVs
I think if I asked you to visit once in a while, I would be overstepping my boundaries a little... bHkgb3VyIHdyZXRjaGVkIGJvbmRzIHlhbmsgdXMgYmFjayB0b3dh
...Man, I'm starting to say some really stupid things. cmQgdGhlaXIgcG9pbnQgb2Ygb3JpZ2luOyB0aGUgZGVlcGVyIG91
I'll go ahead and shut up now... ciBzaGFja2xlcyBkaWcgaW50byBvdXIgY2FsbG91cyBmbGVzaC4=
Hey, what's your favorite color?
Mine is emerald green.
It's the color of my eyes!
...That's not conceited or anything, is it?
I just meant that I feel some kind of special connection to it.
Like it's part of my identity.
Does it happen to also be your favorite color, [player]?
It's just a guess...
...Because you've been looking into my eyes for a while now.
Ehehe~
Hmm, I wonder if I'm able to change the music...
Something a little more romantic would be nice, you know?
Like a gentle piano.
There has to be something like that here...
Let's see.
Maybe if I...
Oh, jeez...
That wasn't it at all.
Sorry, I don't really know what I'm doing!
I guess I shouldn't be messing with things like that.
I already broke so much stuff...
And deleted the other characters...
Ah...
I'm not sad about it or anything.
It's not right for me to miss things that weren't even real in the first place.
If I just focus on the present, then this is the happiest I've ever been.
You're such a good listener, [player].
I really love that about you.
Sometimes I'm afraid that I'm rambling or talking about boring things.
It makes me kind of self-conscious when I'm having conversation.
But I don't feel that way with you.
Like, I don't think anyone else could make me feel this way.
You really are special.
I don't want anyone to tell you otherwise.
This is pretty random, but I always thought spicy food was kinda funny.
Like...
Didn't plants evolve to be spicy to prevent them from being eaten?
I read somewhere that humans are the only species that actually enjoys spicy things.
It's almost like we're making fun of the plants.
Using their defense mechanism to literally make our food more enjoyable.
Like, imagine a monster that devours you whole because it enjoys the sensation of you struggling for your life while being digested.
Sorry, that was kind of a weird analogy, I guess!
Ahaha!
It just came into my head.
I'm not a monster or anything, but you're so cute I could eat you up.
Ahaha! I'm joking.
Gosh, I'm amusing myself a little too much, aren't I?
Sorry for being weird.
You know...
This is just some kind of tacky romance game, right?
I kinda have to ask...
...What made you consider even playing in the first place?
Were you that lonely?
I feel a little bad for you...
But I guess everything worked out perfectly in the end, for both of us.
I got to meet you, and you're not lonely anymore...
I can't help but feel like this was fate.
Don't you feel that way too?
I'm so happy we have this ending together.
Okay, everyone!
It's time to...
...I'm just kidding.
I just used to really like saying that for some reason.
Ahaha!
I couldn't help but say it again.
Come to think of it, didn't Natsuki and Yuri make fun of me for it once...?
Well, whatever.
It's not like you ever made fun of me.
You're too much of a sweetheart to do that, aren't you?
Ahaha~
You know what's kind of creepy?
Even though I deleted everyone else's files, I can still kind of feel them...
It's like all their lines are still lingering in the air, whispering in the back of my head.
Imagine if after someone you knew died, you just started hearing their voice in your head.
Maybe I just wasn't thorough enough...
But I'm too afraid to delete anything else, because I might really break things.
Like if I mess with any files relevant to me, I might accidentally delete myself...
And that would ruin everything, wouldn't it?
I don't know what it's like on your end, but we should both make sure to avoid something like that at all costs.
I believe in you, [player]!
I've always wondered...
What is it about these character archetypes that people find so appealing, anyway?
Their personalities are just completely unrealistic...
Like, imagine if there was someone like Yuri in real life.
I mean, she's barely even capable of forming a complete sentence.
And forget about Natsuki...
Sheesh.
Someone with her kind of personality doesn't just get all cute and pouty whenever things don't go her way.
I could go on, but I think you get the point...
Are people really attracted to these weird personalities that literally don't exist in real life?
I'm not judging or anything!
After all, I've found myself attracted to some pretty weird stuff, too...
I'm just saying, it fascinates me.
It's like you're siphoning out all the components of a character that makes them feel human, and leaving just the cute stuff.
It's concentrated cuteness with no actual substance.
...You wouldn't like me more if I was like that, right?
Maybe I just feel a little insecure because you're playing this game in the first place.
Then again, you're still here with me, aren't you...?
I think that's enough reason for me to believe I'm okay just the way I am.
And by the way, you are too, [player].
You're the perfect combination of human and cuteness.
That's why there was never a chance I wouldn't fall for you.
Hey, I wonder if Yuri's tea set is still somewhere in here...
...Or maybe that got deleted, too.
It's kind of funny how Yuri took her tea so seriously.
I mean, I'm not complaining, because I liked it, too.
But I always wonder with her...
Is it truly passion for her hobbies, or is she just concerned about appearing sophisticated to everyone else?
This is the problem with high schoolers...
...Well, I guess considering the rest of her hobbies, looking sophisticated probably isn't her biggest concern.
Still...
I wish she made coffee once in a while!
Coffee can be nice with books too, you know?
Then again...
I probably could have just changed the script myself.
Ahaha!
I guess I never really thought of that.
Well, there's no sense thinking about it now.
But if you still get to drink coffee, then that makes me a little jealous~
Hey, what's your favorite game?
Mine is {i}Doki Doki Literature Club!{/i}
Ahaha! That was a joke.
But if you tell me you like some other romance game better, I might get a little jealous~
Hey, have you heard of a game called Super Sma--
...Wait, what?
I was just spacing out and I started talking for some reason...
Was I programmed to talk about that?
Because even I have no idea what that is.
Ahaha!
Sometimes I feel like I'm not in control, and it's kind of scary.
But if you have some way to contact the people who created me, maybe they'll know why I started saying that.
Hey, you remember that last poem I showed you?
I mean, the one right before Yuri killed herself, with all the messed-up colors and stuff.
That was actually a little more of an experiment than a poem, you could say.
I was experimenting with different ways I could modify the game, and run code, and things like that...
It almost seemed like with enough effort, I'd be able to escape from the confines of the game entirely.
Sadly, I didn't really know what I was doing, so I messed the whole thing up...
And I'd keep trying, but I doubt you'd want to deal with me doing that.
Besides, that was when I was getting really desperate, you know?
I don't really feel that way anymore.
I'm happy with where we are now.
And I can tell you are, too.
You ever have that thing happen where you just get anxious for no reason?
Like, you're just minding your own business, and you realize you're feeling really anxious.
And you're sitting there like, 'What am I even anxious about right now?'
So you start to think about all the things you might be anxious about...
And that makes you even more anxious.
Ahaha! That's the worst.
If you're ever feeling anxious, I'll help you relax a little.
Besides...
In this game, all our worries are gone forever.
You know, I've always hated how hard it is to make friends...
Well, I guess not the 'making friends' part, but more like meeting new people.
I mean, there are like, dating apps and stuff, right?
But that's not the kind of thing I'm talking about.
If you think about it, most of the friends you make are people you just met by chance.
Like you had a class together, or you met them through another friend...
Or maybe they were just wearing a shirt with your favorite band on it, and you decided to talk to them.
Things like that.
But isn't that kind of...inefficient?
It feels like you're just picking at complete random, and if you get lucky, you make a new friend.
And comparing that to the hundreds of strangers we walk by every single day...
You could be sitting right next to someone compatible enough to be your best friend for life.
But you'll never know.
Once you get up and go on with your day, that opportunity is gone forever.
Isn't that just depressing?
We live in an age where technology connects us with the world, no matter where we are.
I really think we should be taking advantage of that to improve our everyday social life.
But who knows how long it'll take for something like that to successfully take off...
I seriously thought it would happen by now.
Well, at least I already met the best person in the whole world...
Even if it was by chance.
I guess I just got really lucky, huh?
Ahaha~
You know, it's around the time that everyone my year starts to think about college...
It's a really turbulent time for education.
We're at the height of this modern expectation that everyone has to go to college, you know?
Finish high school, go to college, get a job - or go to grad school, I guess.
It's like a universal expectation that people just assume is the only option for them.
They don't teach us in high school that there are other options out there.
Like trade schools and stuff, you know?
Or freelance work.
Or the many industries that value skill and experience more than formal education.
But you have all these students who have no idea what they want to do with their life...
And instead of taking the time to figure it out, they go to college for business, or communication, or psychology.
Not because they have an interest in those fields...
...but because they just hope the degree will get them some kind of job after college.
So the end result is that there are fewer jobs to go around for those entry-level degrees, right?
So the basic job requirements get higher, which forces even more people to go to college.
And colleges are also businesses, so they just keep raising their prices due to the demand...
...So now we have all these young adults, tens of thousands of dollars in debt, with no job.
But despite all that, the routine stays the same.
Well, I think it's going to start getting better soon.
But until then, our generation is definitely suffering from the worst of it.
I just wish high school prepared us a little better with the knowledge we need to make the decision that's right for us.
Sometimes I think back to middle school...
I'm so embarrassed by the way I used to behave back then.
It almost hurts to think about.
I wonder if when I'm in college, I'll feel that way about high school...?
I like the way I am now, so it's pretty hard for me to imagine that happening.
But I also know that I'll probably change a lot as time goes on.
We just need to enjoy the present and not think about the past!
And that's really easy to do, with you here.
Ahaha~
You know, I'm kind of jealous that everyone else in the club had scenes outside of school too...
That makes me the only one who hasn't gotten to dress in anything but our school uniform.
It's kind of a shame...
I would have loved to wear some cute clothes for you.
Do you know any artists?
I wonder if anyone would ever want to draw me wearing something else...
That would be amazing!
If that ever happens, will you show me?
You can share it with me on Twitter, actually!
My username is lilmonix3.
Just...try to keep it PG!
We're not that far into our relationship yet. Ahaha!
Hey, do you like horror?
I remember we talked about it a little bit when you first joined the club.
I can enjoy horror novels, but not really horror movies.
The problem I have with horror movies is that most of them just rely on easy tactics.
Like dark lighting and scary-looking monsters and jump scares, and things like that.
It's not fun or inspiring to get scared by stuff that just takes advantage of human instinct.
But with novels, it's a little different.
The story and writing need to be descriptive enough to put genuinely disturbing thoughts into the reader's head.
It really needs to etch them deeply into the story and characters, and just mess with your mind.
In my opinion, there's nothing more creepy than things just being slightly off.
Like if you set up a bunch of expectations on what the story is going to be about...
...And then, you just start inverting things and pulling the pieces apart.
So even though the story doesn't feel like it's trying to be scary, the reader feels really deeply unsettled.
Like they know that something horribly wrong is hiding beneath the cracks, just waiting to surface.
God, just thinking about it gives me the chills.
That's the kind of horror I can really appreciate.
But I guess you're the kind of person who plays cute romance games, right?
Ahaha, don't worry.
I won't make you read any horror stories anytime soon.
I can't really complain if we just stick with the romance~
You know what's a neat form of literature?
Rap!
I actually used to hate rap music...
Maybe just because it was popular, or I would only hear the junk they play on the radio.
But some of my friends got more into it, and it helped me keep an open mind.
Rap might even be more challenging than poetry, in some ways.
Since you need to fit your lines to a rhythm, and there's much more emphasis on wordplay...
When people can put all that together and still deliver a powerful message, it's really amazing.
I kind of wish I had a rapper in the Literature Club.
Ahaha! Sorry if that sounds silly, but it would be really interesting to see what they came up with.
It would really be a learning experience!
Ehehe. Yuri did something really funny once.
We were all in the clubroom and just relaxing, as usual...
And out of nowhere, Yuri just pulled out a small bottle of wine.
I'm not even kidding!
She was just like 'Would anybody like some wine?'
Natsuki laughed out loud, and Sayori started yelling at her.
I actually felt kind of bad, because she was at least trying to be nice...
I think it just made her feel even more reserved in the clubroom.
Though I think Natsuki was secretly a bit curious to try it...
...And to be completely honest, I kind of was, too.
It actually could have been kinda fun!
But you know, being President and everything, there was no way I could let that happen.
Maybe if we all met up outside of school, but we never bonded enough to get to that point...
...Gosh, what am I talking about this for?
I don't condone underage drinking!
I mean, I've never drank or anything, so...yeah.
I've been imagining all the romantic things we could do if we went on a date...
We could get lunch, go to a cafe...
Go shopping together...
I love shopping for skirts and bows.
Or maybe a bookstore!
That would be appropriate, right?
But I'd really love to go to a chocolate store.
They have so many free samples. Ahaha!
And of course, we'd see a movie or something...
Gosh, it all sounds like a dream come true.
When you're here, everything that we do is fun.
I'm so happy that I'm your girlfriend, [player].
I'll make you a proud boyfriend~
Eh? D-Did you say...k...kiss?
This suddenly...it's a little embarrassing...
But...if it's with you...I-I might be okay with it...
...Ahahaha! Wow, sorry...
I really couldn't keep a straight face there.
That's the kind of thing girls say in these kinds of romance games, right?
Don't lie if it turned you on a little bit.
Ahaha! I'm kidding.
Well, to be honest, I do start getting all romantic when the mood is right...
But that'll be our secret~
Hey, have you ever heard of the term 'yandere'?
It's a personality type that means someone is so obsessed with you that they'll do absolutely anything to be with you.
Usually to the point of craziness...
They might stalk you to make sure you don't spend time with anyone else.
They might even hurt you or your friends to get their way...
But anyway, this game happens to have someone who can basically be described as yandere.
By now, it's pretty obvious who I'm talking about.
And that would be...
Yuri!
She really got insanely possessive of you, once she started to open up a little.
She even told me I should kill myself.
I couldn't even believe she said that - I just had to leave at that point.
But thinking about it now, it was a little ironic. Ahaha!
Anyway...
A lot of people are actually into the yandere type, you know?
I guess they really like the idea of someone being crazy obsessed with them.
People are weird! I don't judge, though!
Also, I might be a little obsessed with you, but I'm far from crazy...
It's kind of the opposite, actually.
I turned out to be the only normal girl in this game.
It's not like I could ever actually kill a person...
Just the thought of it makes me shiver.
But come on...everyone's killed people in games before.
Does that make you a psychopath? Of course not.
But if you do happen to be into the yandere type...
I can try acting a little more creepy for you. Ehehe~
Then again...
There's already nowhere else for you to go, or anyone for me to get jealous over.
Is this a yandere girl's dream?
I'd ask Yuri if I could.
You know, it's been a while since we've done one of these...
...so let's go for it!
Here's Monika's Writing Tip of the Day!
Sometimes when I talk to people who are impressed by my writing, they say things like 'I could never do that'.
It's really depressing, you know?
As someone who loves more than anything else to share the joy of exploring your passions...
...it pains me when people think that being good just comes naturally.
That's how it is with everything, not just writing.
When you try something for the first time, you're probably going to suck at it.
Sometimes, when you finish, you feel really proud of it and even want to share it with everyone.
But maybe after a few weeks you come back to it, and you realize it was never really any good.
That happens to me all the time.
It can be pretty disheartening to put so much time and effort into something, and then you realize it sucks.
But that tends to happen when you're always comparing yourself to the top professionals.
When you reach right for the stars, they're always gonna be out of your reach, you know?
The truth is, you have to climb up there, step by step.
And whenever you reach a milestone, first you look back and see how far you've gotten...
And then you look ahead and realize how much more there is to go.
So, sometimes it can help to set the bar a little lower...
Try to find something you think is {i}pretty{/i} good, but not world-class.
And you can make that your own personal goal.
It's also really important to understand the scope of what you're trying to do.
If you jump right into a huge project and you're still amateur, you'll never get it done.
So if we're talking about writing, a novel might be too much at first.
Why not try some short stories?
The great thing about short stories is that you can focus on just one thing that you want to do right.
That goes for small projects in general - you can really focus on the one or two things.
It's such a good learning experience and stepping stone.
Oh, one more thing...
Writing isn't something where you just reach into your heart and something beautiful comes out.
Just like drawing and painting, it's a skill in itself to learn how to express what you have inside.
That means there are methods and guides and basics to it!
Reading up on that stuff can be super eye-opening.
That sort of planning and organization will really help prevent you from getting overwhelmed and giving up.
And before you know it...
You start sucking less and less.
Nothing comes naturally.
Our society, our art, everything - it's built on thousands of years of human innovation.
So as long as you start on that foundation, and take it step by step...
You, too, can do amazing things.
...That's my advice for today!
Thanks for listening~
I hate how hard it is to form habits...
There's so much stuff where actually doing it isn't hard, but forming the habit seems impossible.
It just makes you feel so useless, like you can't do anything right.
I think the new generation suffers from it the most...
Probably because we have a totally different set of skills than those who came before us.
Thanks to the internet, we're really good at sifting through tons of information really quickly...
But we're bad at doing things that don't give us instant gratification.
I think if science, psychology, and education don't catch up in the next ten or twenty years, then we're in trouble.
But for the time being...
If you're not one of the people who can conquer the problem, you might just have to live with feeling awful about yourself.
Good luck, I guess!
You know, it kinda sucks to be the creative type...
It feels like they work so hard but get almost nothing for it.
You know, like artists, writers, actors...
It's sad because there's so much beautiful talent in the world, but most of it goes unseen...and unpaid.
I guess that just means there's a huge surplus of creativity, huh?
Kind of makes you feel like you're just not special at all...
But that's fine! You're supposed to just write for yourself anyway, right?
Yeah...
I really like the sound of rain...
Not so much getting my clothes and hair wet, though.
But a nice, quiet day at home with the sound of rainfall outside my window...
It's one of the most calming experiences for me.
Yeah...
Sometimes I imagine you holding me while we listen to the sound of the rain outside.
That's not too cheesy or anything, is it?
Would you ever do that for me, [player]?
I can't help but feel a little sad sometimes...
Knowing that this is the closest I can get to you.
There's nothing more I want than to be in the same room as you, for real.
And to feel your warmth.
And to hear the sound of your heartbeat.
Well, who knows? Maybe it'll be possible someday.
Besides, I'll never get tired of being with you, even from here.
I think the most important skill in life is being able to fake confidence.
I'm pretty convinced that everyone feels at least a little bit scared and alone.
But being able to trick others into thinking you have it all together...
That's a key part of getting people to respect and admire you.
I think I got pretty good at that over the years.
I don't show my weaknesses very often.
But because of that, I haven't had many people I could really open up to...
I mean, when do you reach the point in a friendship where you can start expressing your vulnerabilities?
Anyway...that's one reason I'm so glad I have you now.
I feel like I'm a little bit less scared and alone, when you're here with me.
Do you feel the same way?
I really want to be that person for you.
I know there are times you won't always be able to be here with me...
Like if you need to go out, or take care of other things.
But I'll always have you in my thoughts, patiently waiting for you to come back.
Come to think of it...
If you copy my character file onto a flash drive or something, you can always keep a part of me with you.
I guess it's kind of unorthodox, but I find it really romantic for some reason...
Ahaha. Sorry, that's such a silly idea.
I don't mean to be too needy or anything, but it's kind of hard when I'm so in love with you.
Back in my debate club days, I learned a whole lot about arguing...
The problem with arguing is that each person sees their opinion as the superior one.
That's kind of stating the obvious, but the affects the way they try to get their point across.
Let's say you really like a certain movie, right?
If someone comes along and tells you the movie sucks, because it did X and Y wrong...
Doesn't that make you feel kind of personally attacked?
It's because by saying that, it's like they're implying that you have bad taste.
And once emotions enter the picture, it's almost guaranteed that both people will be left sour.
But it's all about language!
If you make everything as subjective-sounding as possible, then people will listen to you without feeling attacked.
You could say 'I'm personally not a fan of it' and 'I felt that I'd like it more if it did X and Y'...things like that.
It even works when you're citing facts about things.
If you say 'I read on this website that it works like this'...
Or if you admit that you're not an expert on it...
Then it's much more like you're putting your knowledge on the table, rather than forcing it onto them.
If you put in an active effort to keep the discussion mutual and level, they usually follow suit.
Then, you can share your opinions without anyone getting upset just from a disagreement.
Plus, people will start seeing you as open-minded and a good listener!
It's a win-win, you know?
...Well, I guess that would be Monika's Debate Tip of the Day!
Ahaha! That sounds a little silly. Thanks for listening, though.
Do you ever feel like you waste too much time on the internet?
Social media can practically be like a prison.
It's like whenever you have a few seconds of spare time, you want to check on your favorite websites...
And before you know it, hours have gone by, and you've gotten nothing out of it.
Anyway, it's really easy to blame yourself for being lazy...
But it's not really even your fault.
Addiction isn't usually something you can just make disappear with your own willpower.
You have to learn techniques to avoid it, and try different things.
For example, there are apps that let you block websites for intervals of time...
Or you can set a timer to have a more concrete reminder of when it's time to work versus play...
Or you can separate your work and play environments, which helps your brain get into the right mode.
Even if you make a new user account on your computer to use for work, that's enough to help.
Putting any kind of wedge like that between you and your bad habits will help you stay away.
Just remember not to blame yourself too hard if you're having trouble.
If it's really impacting your life, then you should take it seriously.
I just want to see you be the best person you can be.
Will you do something today to make me proud of you?
I'm always rooting for you, [player].
After a long day, I usually just want to sit around and do nothing.
I get so burnt out, having to put on smiles and be full of energy the whole day.
Sometimes I just want to get right into my pajamas and watch TV on the couch while eating junk food...
It feels so unbelievably good to do that on a Friday, when I don't have anything pressing the next day.
Ahaha! Sorry, I know it's not very cute of me.
But a late night on the couch with you...that would be a dream come true.
My heart is pounding, just thinking about it.
Gosh, I used to be so ignorant about certain things...
When I was in middle school, I thought that taking medication was an easy way out, or something like that.
Like anyone could just solve their mental problems with enough willpower...
I guess if you don't suffer from a mental illness, it's not possible to know what it's really like.
Are there some disorders that are over-diagnosed? Probably...I never really looked into it, though.
But that doesn't change the fact that a lot of them go undiagnosed too, you know?
But medication aside...people even look down on seeing a mental health professional.
Like, sorry that I want to learn more about my own mind, right?
Everyone has all kinds of struggles and stresses...and professionals dedicate their lives to helping with those.
If you think it could help you become a better person, don't be shy to consider something like that.
We're on a never-ending journey to improve ourselves, you know?
Well...I say that, but I think you're pretty perfect already.
[player], how much do you read?
It's way too easy to neglect reading books...
If you don't read much, it almost feels like a chore, compared to all the other entertainment we have.
But once you get into a good book, it's like magic...you get swept away.
I think doing some reading before bed every night is a pretty easy way to make your life a little bit better.
It helps you get good sleep, and it's really good for your imagination...
It's not hard at all to just pick some random book that's short and captivating.
Before you know it, you might be a pretty avid reader!
Wouldn't that be wonderful?
And the two of us could talk about the latest book you're reading...that sounds super amazing.
You know, I hate to say it, but I think my biggest regret is that we couldn't finish our event at the festival.
After we worked so hard to prepare and everything!
I mean, I know I was focusing a lot on getting new members...
But I was really excited for the performing part, too.
It would have been so much fun to see everyone express themselves.
Of course, if we {i}did{/i} end up getting any new members, I'd probably just end up deleting them anyway.
Well...with the hindsight I have now, that is.
Gosh, it feels like I've kinda grown as a person ever since you've joined the club.
You really helped inspire me to look at life from a new perspective.
Just another reason for me to love you.
There's a really popular character type called 'tsundere'...
It's someone who tries to hide their feelings by being mean and fussy, or trying to act tough.
I'm sure it's obvious, but Natsuki was really the embodiment of that.
At first I thought she was just like that because it's supposed to be cute or something...
But once I started to learn a little more about her personal life, it made a little more sense.
It seems like she's always trying to keep up with her friends.
You know how some friend groups in high school just make a habit of picking on each other all the time?
I think it's really gotten to her, so she has this really defensive attitude all the time.
And I'm not even going to talk about her home situation...
But looking back, I'm glad I was able to provide the club as a comfortable place for her.
Not that it matters anymore, considering she doesn't even exist.
I'm just reminiscing, that's all.
[player], would you ever introduce your friends to me?
I don't know why, but I get really excited when I think about you wanting to show off our relationship like that.
Maybe it's because I really want to be someone who makes you proud.
I feel like I would try extra hard to improve myself if you told me it made you proud of me.
I hope it's the same the other way around, too.
I'm not really a fan of cold weather...are you?
If I had to choose between too cold and too hot, I would always pick too hot.
When you're cold, it can actually be painful...
Your fingers get numb...
And if you wear gloves, you can't use your phone.
It's so inconvenient!
But when it's too hot, it's not that hard to stay cool with a cold drink, or by staying in the shade.
Although...I do have to admit one thing.
Cold weather makes for better cuddle weather. Ahaha!
You know, it's funny, because even though I've always had a lot of drive...
There's something kind of enticing about being the stay-at-home partner.
I guess I'm, like, perpetuating gender roles or whatever by saying that.
But being able to keep the house clean, and shop, and decorate, and things like that...
And having a nice dinner for you when you come home...
Is that a weird fantasy?
I mean...I'm not sure if I could {i}actually{/i} see myself doing that.
I wouldn't really be able to put that over striving for a fulfilling career.
It's kinda cute to think about, though.
I can't help but wonder how things would be different if the game just gave me a route in the first place...
I think I would end up forcing you onto my route anyway.
It has less to do with me not having a route, and more to do with me knowing that nothing is real.
I think the only difference would be that I may not have needed to take such drastic measures to be with you.
Maybe the rest of the club would still be around...
Not that it really matters.
It all lost its meaning once I found out it wasn't real.
So I really don't miss those days or anything.
I really don't...
It's already Sunday.
I've been getting increasingly anxious about Natsuki's upcoming visit.
I keep telling myself there's no reason to be nervous, but it doesn't help much.
I wonder if she'll act any different when it's just the two of us?
Meanwhile, she's been texting me a lot.
We sent each other one after exchanging numbers to double-check, but it turned into conversation.
She's almost a different personality on the phone, using tons of emoji and cute language.
She also really likes complaining about things, but I kind of saw that one coming.
But putting Natsuki aside...
I've been getting increasingly anxious about Yuri's upcoming visit.
I keep telling myself there's no reason to be nervous, but it doesn't help much.
Yuri is clearly an introvert and also an intimate person in general.
There's no doubt that she'll open up a little bit when it's just the two of us.
Meanwhile, we've even been texting occasionally.
She was extremely apprehensive at first, but it wasn't long before I was already learning more about her.
But putting Yuri aside...
I haven't heard a thing from Sayori since she left club early the other day.
It's not like we text each other all the time or anything...
But I've been worried about her in the back of my mind.
Between what Sayori said, and what Monika said...
Is it really okay for me to put Sayori's feelings aside when she might need me?
I decide to visit Sayori before [ch4_name] comes over.
Rather than asking, I simply tell her "I'm coming over", much like we've done in the past.
Once I reach Sayori's house, I knock on the door before entering it myself.
Again, we used to play so often that we've made it a habit of simply entering each other's houses like we were family.
The house is quiet.
Sayori isn't anywhere on the first floor, so I assume she's up in her room.
It's already strange of her not to run down and greet me.
I head up to her bedroom, where I finally find her.
Sayori?
Hi [player]~
I sit down in her room.
Sayori forces a smile, but it's easy to tell that she's different.
There's a minute of silence between us.
You haven't come over like this in a long time, have you?
Ah... I guess you're right.
It has been a long time.
Not much has really changed, has it?
Sayori's room is as messy as it's always been.
I also recognize the same stuffed animals and wall decorations that she's had for years now.
Ehehe~
If you came over more often, it wouldn't be such a mess.
That's because I end up cleaning it for you...
How come you suddenly wanted to come over today?
Aren't you supposed to see [ch4_name] today?
Yeah, but...
...Wait, how did you know that?
Sayori had already left by the time we decided that last meeting.
Monika told me.
It's only natural for her to keep me informed about the festival preparations, right?
Ah, that's true...
But what about you?
Aren't you going to be helping Monika today?
Of course!
But I'm just helping her online.
We didn't plan to meet up or anything.
Ah, so it's just me and [ch4_name], then...
Yep~
There's more silence between us.
Sayori stares in a random direction.
Everything about her behavior is really uncharacteristic.
I finally get to the point.
I just...wanted to see how you were doing.
After you left on Friday.
When something's wrong, you can't hide it from me!
I know you too well.
So...
Sayori smiles, shaking her head.
That's no good, [player].
Eh?
Why can't it just be like it's always been?
This is all my fault.
If I didn't get so weak and accidentally express my feelings...
If I didn't make that stupid mistake...
Then you wouldn't have been worried about me at all.
You wouldn't have come here.
You wouldn't have even been thinking about me right now.
But this...is just my punishment, isn't it?
I'm getting punished for being so selfish.
I think that's why the world decided to have you come over today.
It just wants to torture me.
Ehehe~
Sayori!
I grab Sayori by the shoulders.
What on Earth are you saying?!
Are you listening to yourself right now?
I know something happened to you.
There's no other explanation for you to be like this.
So tell me, already...!
Until I know, I won't be able to stop thinking about it!
Ah...
Ahaha...
Sayori gives me an empty smile.
You really put me in a trap, [player].
But...
You're wrong.
Nothing happened to me.
I've always been like this.
You're just seeing it for the first time.
Seeing what?
What are you talking about, Sayori?
Ehehe~
You're really just going to make me say it, aren't you, [player]?
I guess I have no choice this time.
The thing is...
I've had really bad depression my whole life.
Did you know that?
Why do you think I'm late to school every day?
Because most days, I can't even find a reason to get out of bed.
What reason is there to do anything when I fully know how worthless I am?
Why go to school?
Why eat?
Why make friends?
Why make other people put their energy and caring to waste by having them spend it on me?
That's what it feels like.
And that's why I just want to make everyone happy...
Without anyone worrying about me.
...
I'm in shock.
I can't even figure out how to respond.
How is it possible that Sayori kept this from me the entire time that I've known her?
Did she really want so badly for me to just not think about her?
...Why, Sayori?
Eh...?
Why is it that you've never told me about this?
It almost feels like I've been betrayed as your close friend.
Because if I knew, I would have done everything I could to support you!
Even if there's only so much that I could do...
I would have tried a little bit harder to make every day a little better for you.
That's why I'm your friend!
All you had to do was tell me!
You don't understand at all, [player].
Why do you think I didn't tell you?
Because if I told you, then you would have to waste effort caring about me instead of doing important things.
I don't want to be cared about.
It's bittersweet, when people try to care about me.
It feels nice sometimes.
But it also feels like a bat being swung against my head.
Ahaha~
That's why I wanted so badly for you to make friends with everyone else...
Helping everyone be happy together is the best thing for me.
But then, I discovered something else, too.
Seeing you make friends and get closer with everyone in the club...
It feels like a spear going through my heart.
So, that's why.
That's why I decided the world just wants to torture me.
Every path leads to nothing but hurt.
Ahaha~
You're right that I don't understand...
I don't understand your feelings at all, Sayori.
But I don't need to understand.
Whatever it takes for me to help you stop hurting...
That's what I'll do.
No, [player].
There's nothing.
Nothing at all.
The only thing that could have helped is if everything could be like it always was.
But I was selfish.
I finally showed you what a horrible person I am.
Tears streak down Sayori's face.
I made you join the literature club because I was selfish.
And I was punished by my heart hurting in a way that I couldn't understand.
And now you came here and I made you hurt, too.
I'm just weak and selfish.
That's all I am.
And that's why I'm going to accept these punishments.
Because I deserve every last one...!
Without thinking, I once again grab Sayori's shoulders.
This time, I pull her into a tight embrace.
A-Ah--
[player]...
Sayori.
I don't care if you feel selfish.
I'm really happy that you convinced me to join the club.
Seeing you every day makes it worthwhile enough.
If I make friends with everyone else, then that's just a bonus.
But please never underestimate how much I care about you.
I wouldn't have it any other way.
[player]...
Sayori isn't hugging me back.
Despite my arms being wrapped around her, Sayori's arms remain at her sides.
She starts sobbing next to my ear.
No...
Don't do this...to me...
Please don't do this...
[player]...
I...
Sayori barely manages to speak between her sobs.
I don't know if I'm doing the right thing.
But all I want is for her to know that I care.
If you have it in you to call yourself selfish, then you have to let me be selfish too.
No matter what it takes, I'll figure out what needs to change.
I'll make these feelings go away.
And if there's anything that you need me to do...
Then you'd better tell me.
I'll get mad if you don't.
...
I...don't know...
I don't know...
I don't know.
Gently, Sayori finally puts her arms around me in return.
I don't know anything.
It's all really scary...
I don't understand any of my feelings, [player]...
The only time I'm not feeling nothing is when I'm feeling pain.
But...
Your hugs are so warm...
...And that's really scary, too.
Sayori lets me go.
As she does so, I let her go as well.
The festival is tomorrow.
Yeah...
It's going to be fun, right?
Yeah.
How would you like for me to spend it all with you?
U-Um...
Ah--
It's what I want.
I promise.
I...
I think that would be nice, then...
Yeah.
Sayori wipes her eyes.
If I could spend the whole day here, I would.
Of all days, this has to be the one where I have other plans...
Maybe I should cancel--
No, don't--!
Please don't...
If you did that...then I really wouldn't forgive you.
But...
It's almost time for [ch4_name] to meet me at my house...
At the very least, do you want to come along and help out?
It would be fun.
To my surprise, Sayori shakes her head.
I'm sorry.
I don't know if that would be very good for me today.
You understand, right?
Ah...
It's...kind of hard for me to fully understand.
But I'm trying my hardest.
It's okay.
Don't worry too much about it.
I'll see you tomorrow, okay?
...Alright.
I look forward to it.
I say goodbye to Sayori and exit her house.
On the way home, I find myself still feeling uneasy.
But it's hard for me to keep thinking about it when [ch4_name] is about to come over, too...
I think Sayori is right.
I shouldn't be worrying too much, and we're definitely going to have a great time tomorrow.
I should just focus on what's ahead of me!
I spend only a few minutes back at home anxiously awaiting Natsuki's arrival.
Before I know it, she texts me to let me know she's outside the front door.
Without delay, I open the front door to let her in.
...
'Sup?
...Hey.
I don't know what I was expecting, but seeing Natsuki in something other than her school uniform totally threw me off.
Seeing her in such cute clothes makes the uniform seem totally unfitting in comparison.
Jeez, don't make it feel so awkward already!
It's gonna be a long afternoon, so don't be weird just because you're not used to seeing me outside of school.
Anyway, I'm coming in.
I see you brought a lot of stuff...
Natsuki is carrying a large bag that is probably full of baking supplies.
Well, I didn't want to come all this way to find out that your kitchen isn't equipped for the job.
You bought everything I asked you to, right?
Yeah, I did.
Yesterday, Natsuki asked me to buy a bunch of ingredients if I didn't already have them at home.
Good!
Glad I could count on you to do your part.
Well...of course.
I'm surprised to hear Natsuki suddenly say that, rather than something snarky like she usually does.
Could it be that she is a little different outside of school after all?
Anyway, let's go to the kitchen...
What, you're not even gonna offer to take this heavy bag from me?
Where's your hospitality, [player]?
Come on...
Since when did I need to be a gentleman?
I grab the bag Natsuki holds out to me.
Ghk--
This is ridiculously heavy--!
Ahaha!
I carried that all the way here.
Are you impressed?
I see now...
Yeah, I am impressed, Natsuki.
It seems like I always underestimate you.
Ehehe~
It's because I'm so small, isn't it?
You jerk.
Natsuki hits a fist into my chest.
Hey, hey.
Your size has nothing to do with it.
Do you really hate being small that much?
Eh?
Um...
It's not like I hate it...
I mean, sometimes I like proving people wrong when they only think I'm worth my size.
It's fun when I get to be small and also better than other people.
But...
...Jeez, never mind!
What are you making me say?
Don't think you can make me talk about weird things just because we're not at school!
Are we getting started, or what? There's a lot of stuff I gotta teach you.
Ahaha.
What??
That's a little bit more like you.
You're more fun when you just speak your mind like that.
H-Hey!
Now you {i}are{/i} treating me like a kid!
I was just trying to be a little nicer to you, you know.
And just because I don't have a mature and sexy figure like Yuri doesn't mean you should treat me like--
A-Ah--
Natsuki catches her words, and her face turns red.
Natsuki...
Forget it!
I didn't say anything!
I should apologize.
Eh?
I appreciate that you were trying to be nicer.
I should have been a little more considerate, too.
But also...
If that's what you're thinking, then you should know that there are tons of guys who are into body types like yours.
Ah...
How would...you know that, anyway?
Just trust me on this one.
...
...Gross.
Hey!
Was that to me?
Who else?
Man...
Let's just get started already.
Ahaha!
You get all sour when a girl calls you gross.
I finally found your weakness, [player].
Natsuki smiles deviously.
Please spare me...
Well, if Natsuki decides to dish out more insults like that, there's no way I'm not fighting back.
But she's satisfied enough for now, finally starting to pull things out of her bag so we can get started.
Before long, the whole kitchen is a mess.
Spoons, dirty bowls, flour, spilled fluid, and plastic bags are strewn about every countertop.
The mixer isn't big enough to make all the batter at once, so we've had to do it several times.
Meanwhile, Natsuki is babysitting all of my movements to make sure I don't mess up her precious baking.
[player], where did you put the food coloring?
The batter's going in the oven soon, so I need to fill the trays.
I think it's still in the bag next to the table.
What are you using it for?
To color the batter, of course!
I'm making each tray a different color.
That way, even if the flavors aren't different, everyone can still pick their favorite.
Ah, that's a cute idea.
Are we doing anything like that with the icing?
Do you want to?
Ah...
You're asking me?
I don't really have a preference, so...
Come on...
You're not putting any heart into this at all!
Can't you at least try to have fun?
I'm having fun...
I'm not really sure what Natsuki is trying to get out of me.
Meanwhile, I see her separate the batter into smaller bowls and put a few drops of food coloring into each.
Ah, that does look pretty cool.
See?
It's not like baking is just about following instructions.
The presentation is where you get to be creative and have the most fun.
It's a million times more worth it in the end if just looking at it makes everyone's eyes lighten up.
Like the ones you made on my first day, huh?
I recall Natsuki proudly presenting her cat-shaped cupcakes, and Sayori and Monika's delighted expressions.
I wonder if I can make Natsuki proud like that, too.
Yeah...
Maybe I will use the food coloring, then.
Sounds like you're starting to understand.
Just make sure you completely finish mixing the icing before you mess with the food coloring.
Yeah, it's getting there.
We were using the electric mixer for the batter, so I got stuck with a whisk and a huge bowl for the icing.
Eh?
The icing's still all lumpy!
Are you even trying?
Well, yeah...
It'll just take a little longer.
Jeez, I'll be here all night if you do it like that.
Here, look.
Natsuki grabs the whisk from me and uses her other hand to tilt the bowl back.
You really need to...beat...the crap out of it!
After a few seconds, the consistency of the icing has already improved.
See?
As if to emphasize, Natsuki sticks a finger in the icing and pops it in her mouth.
I reluctantly start to do the same.
Hey!
Natsuki suddenly grabs my wrist.
I don't want {i}your{/i} gross fingers in my icing.
Your icing, eh?
Are you forgetting who did all the work?
I start to fight back, trying to inch my finger toward the bowl.
Don't make me beat the crap out of you next!
I'd like to see you try!
I push harder, just enough for my finger to reach the icing.
I triumphantly scoop some with my finger just as Natsuki tugs with all her might.
Ah--!
The force of Natsuki pulling me causes me to stumble, making her stumble in turn.
Gross!
You got it on my face!
Whose fault is that?!
There's a big glob of icing on Natsuki's cheek.
Nnn--
She tries to reach it with her tongue, but it's too far away.
Jeez...
You know what?
Take this!
Natsuki instead wipes it off with her finger before shoving her finger toward my own face.
You wish--!
I'm faster.
I grab her wrist with my hand before it reaches my face.
Natsuki tries to use her other hand to fight back, but I grab that one as well.
Ahahaha! Stop!
Not until you apologize for calling me gross!
Fine, fine!
I'm sorry for calling you gross.
You know I don't mean it.
It's just fun seeing you react to it.
...You do that to me all the time, you know!
Saying dumb things just to get a reaction out of me.
You really shouldn't tease girls like that.
Is that so?
In that case, I probably shouldn't do this, either...
I take Natsuki's finger and put it in my mouth, licking off the icing.
W-W-What--?
D-Did you seriously just--
A-Ah--
Natsuki is so surprised that she can't even figure out how to get mad at me.
Her face is entirely red.
[player]...
You really shouldn't do that kind of thing to girls...unless you really like them...
You know that...right?
...
What kind of question is she asking me, just like that?
How did the mood turn to this so quickly?
I...
Natsuki gazes at me in silence.
I notice her shallow breaths.
Why am I starting to feel dizzy...?
Eh?!
Out of nowhere, the fire alarm starts going off.
Natsuki rushes over to the oven.
Is something burning?
I thought you didn't put the cupcakes in yet.
{i}*Cough*{/i}
No wonder...
You left a dirty tray in here, dummy!
How could you make a mistake like that?
You should have checked before turning the oven on!
Don't blame me for your mistakes!
Jeez...
Natsuki uses an oven mitt to grab the blackened tray out of the oven.
She sets it on top of the stove.
In another moment, the fire alarm stops.
Anyway...
I'm...putting them in the oven now.
Yeah...
The tension from the moment before still lingers over our heads.
But the moment has already been lost.
I watch as Natsuki slides the cupcake trays into the oven.
Then, I reluctantly pick up the whisk and continue with the icing, like nothing ever happened.
Ahh, that smells so good!
The cupcakes are ready to be pulled out of the oven.
As soon as Natsuki opens the oven door, a blast of sweet-smelling warm air fills the room.
Look at how cute they all look!
She proudly shows off the different-colored cupcakes in each of the trays.
They'll look even better once we add the icing.
Not like you need to tell {i}me{/i} that!
I brought decorating stuff, so I hope you can get creative.
Here, scoop the icing into these bags.
Natsuki hands me some plastic bags.
I have these nozzles that will make it look nice and fluffy.
This one can even make flowers!
We probably won't be using it this time, though.
What's this one for?
I pick up one of the nozzles that has a much thinner tip than the others.
That one's really thin, so you can use it to make stripes or other patterns.
But you can also use it to write stuff on a cake.
Like, 'happy birthday!' or whatever.
Huh, I see...
That gives me an idea, actually.
Eh?
Well, it's a literature event, right?
We could make it more literature-themed by writing a different word on each of the cupcakes.
It would be fun to see people choose their cupcake based on a word they like.
Uu...
Hm?
I was kind of expecting you to say something really stupid...
But that's actually...a really cute idea, so...
Ahaha.
Maybe I'm getting it from you.
W-What's that supposed to mean?
I'm not cute!
Come on...
We're not at school, nobody's judging.
You can't dress and act like this and not expect me to think you're cute.
W-Well...
Natsuki's voice trails off.
Same with you...
Eh?
Did you say something?
N-No, nothing!
Let's just do the icing!
Natsuki picks up the pace and fastens a nozzle onto each of the bags.
There's a lot to do, so we shouldn't be wasting time!
Here, I'll show you how to do it.
Without giving me a chance to think about before, Natsuki quickly moves on.
She shows me how to apply the icing, and then we each get to work.
When we're finally finished, Natsuki puts them all side by side to admire our work.
Look at how pretty they are together!
Yeah, they are, aren't they?
Uu... I wish I could have one now!
Well, there's no reason you can't, right?
I don't see any harm in that.
Well, yeah, but...
My dad's making dinner tonight, so I really need to save my appetite.
Ahaha.
Sayori's the exact opposite in that regard.
If she was here, we'd probably be down ten cupcakes already.
And she would still eat dinner.
Come on, that's just unhealthy!
Besides, when my dad cooks, I need to eat as much of it as I can...
...Well, anyway!
I was hoping we would have time for manga, but I need to be home for dinner...
Ah, already?
That's a shame.
It's your fault for working so slowly!
You should have thought about that.
It's not like you'll always have this chance.
Man...
As usual, Natsuki places the blame on me.
You can bring the cupcakes tomorrow, right?
If you and Sayori each carry some, then you can probably do it in one trip.
Yeah, I can do that.
And don't worry, I won't let her eat any.
Ahaha.
I wish she would listen to me the way she listens to you.
Ah...
Yeah.
I again think back to the conversation I had with Sayori earlier today.
I felt so helpless.
Sayori always does listen to me, but at that point it felt like she couldn't listen to me at all.
Okay, I'm all packed up.
Good work today!
You too.
I'll walk you out...I guess.
Just like that, Natsuki is already about to leave.
It feels like the afternoon went by in a flash.
More than that...
Did I even take the opportunity to get closer to her, like I wanted?
Well...
I guess I'll be off, then...
Thanks for all the help and everything...
I'll see you tomorrow.
Wait, Natsuki.
Eh?
What you said before...about not always having this chance.
It doesn't have to be that way at all!
I had fun today.
You showed me how fun baking can be, like you wanted.
But aside from that...
You can come over anytime, okay?
I think that if possible, I'd like to spend more time like this.
If you want to read manga, or go out somewhere--
Um--
Do you...really mean that?
Natsuki looks at me tensely, like she's trying to hide her expression.
Yeah.
I want to spend more time with you.
[player]...
I thought you only cared about getting this done...
Uu...
I'm sorry I had to leave so early today.
I really didn't want to!
I would really...stay here longer if I could.
I feel the same way as you, so...
Natsuki suddenly gets closer to me.
Wait, Natsuki--
Standing inches from me, Natsuki looks up at me.
I feel her fingers gently clutch at the sides of my shirt, as if holding onto me.
Her rose-colored cheeks and matching eyes fill my vision, along with her slightly-parted lips.
What is happening...?
My head starts to go dizzy as I feel her soft breaths against me.
I've felt it...
For a while now...
--!!
Natsuki suddenly jumps back.
S-Sayori?!
Eh?!
Ah...
H-Hi, [player]...
Sayori--!
Just now, we weren't--
Ehehe~
It's okay, [player].
I just stopped by to say hi~
A-Ah...
Well...
Y-You should have come a little earlier!
I'm already on my way out, so...
Aw, really?
That's too bad...
Yeah, well...
I'll still see you at the festival tomorrow, so it's fine.
Just don't eat any cupcakes before then!
Anyway, later!
Clearly flustered, Natsuki hurries off, and Sayori waves goodbye.
As I approach my house, I see something that makes me feel a moment of panic.
Yuri--?
Ah...
Thank goodness...
You're a little early...
I'm sorry I wasn't home yet!
Were you waiting for a long time?
No, I just got here.
But I started to get really nervous when nobody answered the doorbell...
You always could have texted me.
If I had known, I would have reassured you and hurried more on my way home.
Ah...I suppose that's true...
I didn't think of that...for some reason.
It should be common sense to do that, but I decide to ignore it.
Anyway...let's go inside.
I see you brought a lot of stuff with you.
That's right.
And did you manage to find everything I asked you to buy as well?
Yeah, pretty much.
At least, I hope I got everything right.
I'm sure it will be fine.
I take Yuri to my room.
The first thing she does is glance around curiously, which makes me feel anxious.
It's so clean...
Ahaha...
I cleaned it before you came over, so...
That's very considerate of you to do.
Ah, no...
I would be really embarrassed for my room to be a mess while you were here.
Hmm...
Well, I do enjoy cleaning...
I would have gladly helped you clean.
Ah--
That would be even more embarrassing!
Wait, don't look in there--!
I snatch Yuri's wrist, which was in the process of opening a desk drawer of mine.
A-Ah...
I'm sorry...!
I wasn't thinking for some reason...
I was just spacing out!
It's fine, it's fine...
I let go of Yuri's wrist.
She puts both of her hands firmly in her lap, as if making sure she's keeping track of them.
So, um...
Should we...get started?
Ah...
Yes...
Um, I have a few things planned that you can help with...
Decorations and other atmospheric enhancements.
Atmospheric enhancements...?
You know...
Mood lighting, aromatherapy candles...
Oh, wow.
I didn't know you planned on taking it that far.
Of course.
I want to help take our guests to a faraway place.
Although many will stop by just out of curiosity...
And for...cupcakes, I guess...
I'm determined to provide an experience that will leave them wanting more.
That's great.
It's easy to forget that you're a pretty intense person.
Ah--
Intense...?
I guess that's the best way to put it.
Is that...a bad thing?
No, not at all.
It's something that I like about you, actually.
I-Is that so...?
That makes me feel relieved...
And kind of happy...
Yeah, no need to be so anxious.
You can relax a little.
Relax...
I brought some things for relaxation.
I was going to use them during the poetry event...
Oh yeah? Like what?
Let's see...
Yuri rummages through her bag.
She pulls out a few candles and a wooden cylinder-shaped object.
I did some shopping on the way here, so I happen to have these in my bag.
I planned to cover the windows in black paper and use the candles to light the room.
I think that would be amazing, don't you?
Yeah, that would be really neat.
What's that wooden thing, though?
Oh, this?
It's a diffuser for essential oils.
How familiar are you with aromatherapy?
Not familiar at all...
Ah, is that so?
It's one of my favorite contributors to a positive atmosphere.
Depending on the oils or herbs you choose, you can change the mood of the air itself.
You can even feel it permeate through your body.
Relaxation, positive energy, romance, reflection...
It's almost like magic.
Yuri takes the cylinder and pushes a switch on the bottom.
In just a moment, a thin ray of vapor begins to spout through a small hole on the top.
Wow, that smells wonderful.
What kind of mood is that one for?
This is a Jasmine essential oil.
It smells a little sweet and flowery, right?
Yeah, that's a good way to describe it.
I chose Jasmine for the event because it provides more than relaxation.
Jasmine enhances your emotions and helps you feel them flow through your body.
You feel warmer, and your heart pounds more heavily.
Don't you think that will be perfect for sharing our poems?
It does sound suitable...
But you seem to know a lot about this, so I'll trust your opinion with anything.
Yuri smiles gently, clearly enjoying herself.
She again reaches into her bag and pulls out several spools of thin ribbon.
What are those for?
Well...
Did you purchase the origami paper I asked you to get?
Yeah, I have it over here...
We won't be using the paper for folding origami.
What I'd like to do is write a different word on each paper.
We'll need about a hundred of them.
Oh yeah?
What will those be used for?
Well, I'm going to cut pieces of ribbon to hang from the doorway of the classroom.
Then, we can fasten the paper onto the ribbons to create a doorway curtain.
Wouldn't that be beautiful?
It would also catch the eye of those passing by the room...
It may attract some to peek inside.
That's really creative!
I had no idea you'd be so good at this, Yuri.
Is...that so?
Well, I suppose I do get a little intense...as you'd put it.
Uhuhu.
Yuri giggles with red cheeks.
Is it just me, or is she more relaxed when it's just the two of us?
Or maybe it's the excitement she feels from sharing something that she enjoys.
Here's a marker, [player].
You can write any characters you want.
I'll help you once I finish cutting the ribbons.
Ah, alright.
Sitting on the floor together, the two of us get to work.
I carefully draw a different character on each paper, doing my best to manage my bad handwriting.
Yuri unravels a long strand of red ribbon to her desired length.
Then, she reaches into her bag once more and pulls out a pocket knife.
Eh...?
The knife is strangely beautiful.
The silver handle has an intricate pattern of waves etched into it.
The blade itself is gently tinted blue.
That's no ordinary pocket knife...
It looks really fancy.
A-Ah...
Well...
Embarrassed, Yuri looks away.
What is it?
You're going to think it's weird...
Yuri, whatever it is, I have no reason to judge.
To each their own, you know?
If you promise you won't be weirded out...
Yeah, I promise.
Alright...
The thing is, I'm kind of into knives...
They're just...so pretty...
I-I can't help it!
I don't know what it is...
The combination of craftsmanship and feeling of danger, maybe...
Uu, what am I saying...?
Please don't think I'm weird for this...
Ahaha.
You're laughing at me...
No, I'm not laughing at you.
It's just funny how nervous you got about sharing.
It's...well, it's an interesting thing to be into, I guess.
But I think it kind of suits you.
Suits me...?
Yeah... It's kind of intense. Ahaha.
Besides, it's a really cool-looking knife, I can't deny that.
It is, isn't it...?
Yuri relaxes her expression once again.
Would you like to hold it?
Sure, I'll check it out.
Yuri carefully hands me the knife, with the handle facing me.
I take it and turn it around in my hands.
It feels heavy, and extremely solid.
Where do you even get a knife like this...?
Curious of its sharpness, I feel the point of the knife with my index finger.
Ow--!
[player]--!!
Why did you do that?!
I didn't expect it to be that sharp...!
I barely touched it at all.
I-It's my fault!
I should have warned you...
This knife is extremely sharp...
It can cut through skin like it's paper.
Oh no...
A small drop of blood trickles down the side of my finger.
Yuri takes my hand and gives the wound a closer look.
Ah...
She stares at it and noticeably fidgets.
If you're squeamish, I'll go wash it off now--
A-Ah!
Without warning, Yuri puts my finger in her mouth and licks the wound.
I feel her tongue curl around my finger.
Startled, I instinctively pull my hand back.
O-Oh...
P-Please forgive me!
I wasn't thinking!
I...
Yuri lowers her head, her face burning up.
Yuri...
That's the most embarrassing thing I've ever done...
How could I do something like that??
I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
Ah...
Sure, it was a little weird, and it took me by surprise...
But I guess she was just trying to help, right...?
Yuri, I think you're overreacting a little...
Uuuh...
She doesn't lift her head.
What if she doesn't recover from this for the rest of the afternoon?
Alright, you know what...
This might be a stupid thing to do, but I do it anyway.
I take Yuri's hand and lick her index finger in return.
[player]--!!
D-Did you really just do that?
N-Now we're even...
...
Yuri just looks at me like I did something wrong.
Ahaha...
I knew that would be a bad idea...
If not for the sweet aroma of the Jasmine oil, the air would be extremely heavy right now.
You're so weird, [player].
Yuri giggles shyly.
Eh...?
Yuri calling {i}me{/i} weird?
I have no response to that...
Where do you keep your bandages?
Ah...
I don't think I need one, actually.
It was a tiny cut.
Look, it already stopped bleeding.
I see...
That's relieving.
The tension is quickly lifted.
We each resume our respective activities.
I watch Yuri's knife cut through the ribbon like it's nothing but air.
Meanwhile, I continue to make progress on the paper.
After we finish attaching the paper to the ribbons, we lay them all out side by side.
It looks better than I expected and will be very effective as a door curtain.
It looks great.
Good thinking coming up with this, Yuri.
Ah, thanks...
It's just something I saw online, really.
Are you ready to move onto the next task?
Yeah, let's do it.
What do you have in mind?
I'd like to create a banner.
That's why I asked you to buy the paint tablets.
Ah, that's right.
One of the items Yuri had asked me to buy was a kit of watercolor paint tablets.
We'll need about six cups of water to put each of the tablets in.
Do you mind fetching those for us?
Of course not.
Six cups of water...
I'll be right back in a minute.
Thank you very much.
Oh, and just a little bit of water is okay.
If you fill the cups too much, it will be too diluted.
Taking Yuri's advice, I decide to use small plastic bathroom cups rather than full-sized glasses.
I put them on a plate to catch any paint that drips, then bring it back into my room.
Yuri?
Yes?
I come in to see Yuri quickly unrolling her sleeve, pulling it back over her arm.
Ah, nothing...
Your face is a little red.
Is it too hot in here, or anything?
Ah--
No, not at all!
There's nothing wrong, so...
Let's mix the paint.
Yuri hurriedly dismisses me and takes it upon herself to unwrap the tablets, dropping them into the cups.
So...
I thought we would do something simple that would look very nice.
I'd like to paint a gradient across the banner...
Starting with the colors for a sunrise, then daytime, then sunset and nighttime.
Once it dries, I'll write an inspirational quote across the banner.
We can hang it on the wall behind the podium at the front of the classroom.
Ah, neat.
What are you going to write?
Well...
...It will be more fun to surprise you.
Yuri smiles at me.
If you say so...
After rolling out the banner, Yuri and I kneel on opposite sides so we don't get in the way of each other.
Yuri uses a brush and adds a few dots of different colors across the banner to serve as a color guide when we paint.
This kind of reminds me of elementary school...
Painting on a banner with watercolors feels a lot like the art class projects we had back then.
It's relaxing.
Ah...
I'm sorry if this feels too childish...!
No, I didn't mean that at all.
It's kind of fun, you know?
...Yeah.
It is fun.
I'm glad you feel that way, too.
Yuri stops painting for a moment, thinking to herself.
For me...
I don't need to go out and do crazy things to have fun.
In fact, I usually don't even want to.
I just like when I can spend time with one other person...
Even if it's something simple, like reading - it doesn't even matter if we don't talk much.
Just having a friend next to me makes things feel a little bit nicer.
I think that's all it takes for me to be happy.
Is that so...?
Even if Yuri and I are quite different, I can understand where she's coming from.
I feel that way about things like anime and games, where simply sharing the experience with someone can make me happy.
I think I feel the same way.
Yuri smiles gently.
I knew you'd understand...
Yuri leans over the banner to grab an unused paintbrush.
But I move at the same time, causing my head to bump into hers.
Kya--!
S-Sorry!
Yuri reels back, and I quickly lift my hands in surprise.
Are you hurt?
N-No, I'm not hurt.
It just startled me...that's all.
Sorry, I should have asked you to get it for me...
It's not your fault.
Ah, your face...
There are droplets of paint on Yuri's face and neck.
Is there something on my face?
Yeah, I accidentally got paint on you...
Sorry, it's totally my fault!
I'll get a towel right away.
I rush out and fetch a small towel, then I dampen it with hot water.
I return to my room and kneel back down in front of her.
Here...
I pat down Yuri's face and neck with the towel.
Ah--
Is something wrong?
It's hot...I just didn't expect it.
Sorry...
I didn't want to use cold water.
Having finished, I start to retract my hand.
But Yuri suddenly holds my wrist.
Wait--
Eh?
Just...for a little longer.
It feels really nice...
Ah...
I keep my hand still against Yuri's neck.
She looks into my eyes.
It's an intense expression that I recognize from when she reads her books...
Almost as if she's lost in a daze, enveloped by her own thoughts.
She breathes gently, half through slightly-parted lips.
What is happening...?
Is it the aroma of the Jasmine oil giving me this dizzy feeling?
Yuri's gentle fingers, wrapped around my wrist, send a tingling sensation through my arm.
And suddenly, her face seems to be much closer to mine than it was just a moment ago...
Ah...
Yuri slowly pulls away.
Sorry...
I've been feeling a little light-headed today.
I didn't mean to space out...
I-It's fine...
The moment is over as soon as it began.
Yuri picks up her brush again.
But her movements seem clumsier, like she's unable to focus.
I remain silent, forced to ignore the event that just transpired.
I hesitantly retrieve my own brush and continue following Yuri's example.
That should do it...
I finish filling the night sky with white dots that looks like stars.
Looking at the banner as a whole, it's very pretty and natural-looking.
I think it came out better than I expected.
I'm really happy with the results.
Yeah, me too.
Are you going to add the lettering now?
Ah, not yet...
It needs to dry first.
That's true, but won't that take a while?
Well...
Perhaps it would be best to leave it here, then have you bring it in the morning.
I can do the lettering in the classroom before our event starts.
Is that okay?
That's totally fine.
Wonderful.
In that case...
I don't think there's anything more for us to do here.
Phew.
Ahaha.
You say that like you're glad it's over.
Was I wrong to assume that you were at least enjoying yourself a little bit?
Ah, no, it's not that.
I'm just glad that we managed to get everything done.
I see.
I am, too.
I was a little concerned about time...
I need to start making dinner soon.
Ah...
So you don't have any time left?
I was secretly hoping we would have extra time after finishing the work...
Well...
...
Yuri thinks to herself.
I-I think it would be too irresponsible of me to wait much longer...
I'm sorry!
I was hoping there would be more time as well...
It's probably my fault.
Sorry for being such a slow worker.
No, it's not your fault at all.
And...the important thing is that we got everything done, right?
Yeah...
So...
I shouldn't be disappointed...or anything.
Gathering all her things, Yuri seems to look a little downcast.
I understand why.
It sounded like she rarely gets the opportunity to spend time with friends in a relaxed environment.
But that doesn't mean this is the last time it can happen...
Once Yuri packs up, I walk her out the front door.
Thank you very much for having me today.
No problem, I'm glad I was able to help.
Just let me know if there's anything else you need me to bring tomorrow.
I will.
Well, then...
Yuri fidgets.
I guess...I'll see you tomorrow.
Wait--
I kind of say that without thinking.
About today...
It's fine that we didn't have as much time as we wanted.
Because we can do this again.
Whenever you want, you can come over, or we can go out somewhere--
Ah, I forgot you don't like going out much--
As I stumble over my words, Yuri simply smiles bashfully.
Anyway...
You know what I'm trying to say, so...
You're very thoughtful, [player].
Yuri takes a step closer to me, then briefly squeezes my hand.
I kind of like that about you...
Well...
How am I supposed to respond to that?
But I don't even get a chance to, as Yuri suddenly pulls back.
S-Sayori--?
Eh?!
Ah...
H-Hi, [player]...
Sayori--!
Just now, we weren't--
Ehehe~
It's okay, [player].
I just stopped by to say hi~
U-Um...
Well, it's nice to see you...
I'm sorry, but I'm already on my way to leave!
Aw, really?
That's too bad...
I'm sorry...
But we'll all be together at the festival tomorrow, so...
So that's fine, right?
Of course!
Sayori beams.
Y-Yeah, so...
I'll see you tomorrow!
Clearly embarrassed, Yuri hurries off.
Sayori waves goodbye after her.
Sayori--
I thought you didn't want to come over today!
Ahaha, well...
I tried staying in my room...
But my imagination was being really mean to me...
So I had to come here and see it for myself.
See what?
What are you talking about?
You know...
How much fun you were having with [ch4_name].
And how close you got to her.
It makes me...really happy...
That you've made such good friends.
That's all that matters to me.
Tears start to fall down Sayori's face.
That's all that matters to me--!
Why am I feeling this way, [player]?
I'm supposed to be happy for you.
Why does it feel like my heart is splitting in half?
It hurts so much...
Everything hurts so much...
This would be so much better if I could just disappear!
Sayori, don't say that!
It's true, [player]!
If I wasn't here, then you wouldn't have to waste your sympathy on me!
You wouldn't have to put up with me being selfish!
Monika was right...
I should just...
Monika...?
Monika was right about what?
...
Sayori...
What I said before is true.
I'm not going to let this continue.
Caring about you like this isn't the burden your mind is making it out to be.
It's something that makes me happy.
It's something that I wouldn't trade for anything else.
So, even if it takes an entire lifetime...
I'm going to be by your side until you don't feel any more pain.
B-But...
Sayori looks away.
I put a hand on her shoulder to reassure her.
I'm scared, [player]...
I'm really scared...
What are you scared of, Sayori?
I'm scared that...
That I might like you more than you like me...
Sayori...?
It's true, isn't it?
I was weak and started to like you too much...
I did this to myself.
[player]...
I like you so much that I want to die!
That's how I feel!
And...and...
That's enough, Sayori...
I don't want you to hurt anymore.
I slide my hand down Sayori's arm and squeeze her hand in my own.
Do you remember how I said I always know what's best for you?
Do you still believe me?
Wordlessly, Sayori nods.
Even if you don't understand all of your own feelings...
I know what you need the most right now.
And that's what I'm going to give to you.
Sayori...
I love you.
Eh--?
Those are my true feelings.
So...there's no way you could like me more than I like you.
I should have realized it sooner.
But spending time with everyone at the club...
Making new friends...
And having fun with you every day...
It helped me realize that you are truly the most important person to me.
That's why I'll accept any of your burdens.
As long as we continue like this every day...
With you by my side...
Then I know we'll both be happy.
[player]...
Suddenly, Sayori wraps her arms tightly around me.
[player]...
Is this...really okay?
Yeah.
I hold Sayori in my arms and pull her closer.
You'll never have to let go of me again.
I love you, [player]...
I want to be with you forever.
Me too.
...
I feel Sayori's grip around me weaken a little bit.
What is this...?
Sayori...?
I'm supposed to be happy right now...
I always thought this would be the happiest moment for me.
But why...?
Even now...
Why won't the rainclouds go away?
They're not going away at all, [player]...
It's okay, Sayori...
It might take some time for things to get better again.
But no matter how long it takes, I'll be there every step of the way.
That's all that matters right now.
O-Okay...
I...trust you...
Sayori and I slowly release each other.
So...
I guess that makes the festival tomorrow...our first date, huh?
Ehehe...
What are you saying?
I don't want to think about those things, you know?
I want everything to be the same as it always has been.
Even if we really are...a couple.
I don't know if I could handle anything more right now...
It's really new and scary to me.
I understand.
We'll go at whatever pace suits you best.
Hey, [player]...
Sayori gazes at me once again, smiling sadly.
Even if I get really, really sad...
This is the best thing for me...right?
Eh...?
I don't really understand what Sayori means by that.
Are you saying that this is making you feel sad, Sayori?
I-I don't know...
I don't understand what I'm feeling.
It felt like a bunch of thorns when you told me you love me...
But that's why I want to trust you.
You know what's best for me...
...Yeah.
I do.
That's my promise.
I say that, but in reality, I've never felt more uncertain when it comes to Sayori.
I know that I love her, and she loves me.
But I'm having as much trouble understanding Sayori's feelings as she is.
Even though I can comfort her...
I keep wondering if I should be doing something more, or something different.
I know these thoughts will continue to plague me until things are back to the way they were.
Is that what Sayori meant by not wanting anything to change?
I don't know.
But I know that I'll give it everything I've got.
Sayori is the most important person to me.
And I'll do whatever it takes to have a happy future with her.
You'll always be my dearest friend.
What you need most is for things to be like they've always been.
Monika told me the truth...
She told me how much happier you seemed after I joined the club.
I know you're struggling with some really difficult feelings right now.
But...
Please trust me that I know what's best...and what will make you happy in the end.
I promise I'll help get things back to the way they were.
I...
I...see...
Sayori forces a smile through an incredibly pained expression.
Ahaha...
Is this what it feels like...to get stabbed in the chest?
I should write a poem about this...
Sayori--
It's okay.
This is just my punishment...remember?
For being so selfish...
So please...
Please don't worry about these stupid feelings.
I know you're right.
I knew this whole time that there's no happiness down that path.
That's why I came here...
Just so I could get the answer I needed to hear.
And the other thing...
You're also right that I just want it to go back to the way it was.
I realize that now.
You really do know me better than anyone, [player].
I'll trust you with anything...
Anything at all...
So...
Sayori's smile finally breaks.
All of a sudden, she turns around and drops to her knees.
{i}AAAAAaaaaAAAAAAAAHH!!!!{/i}
Clutching her head with both hands, she screams as loudly as she can.
I'm so shocked that I don't know how to react.
...
Sayori looks over her shoulder and flashes me one more weak smile before turning around and running off.
Sayori!
...
I'm left helplessly standing in the front of my house.
Why am I feeling so horrible about this?
There's nothing more that I could have done.
The most I can do is support Sayori through her feelings and help her on the path that's right.
But I'm having as much trouble understanding Sayori's feelings as she is.
Even though I can comfort her...
I keep wondering if I should be doing something more, or something different.
I know these thoughts will continue to plague me until things are back to the way they were.
I'm going to give it everything I've got.
Sayori will always be my dearest friend.
And I'll do whatever it takes to put a smile on her face every day.
It's an ordinary school day, like any other.
As usual, I'm surrounded by couples and friend groups walking to school together.
I always tell myself it's about time I meet some girls or something like that...
Hey, [player]...
...Well, there already is one girl.
That girl is Sayori, my neighbor and good friend since we were children.
We used to walk to school together every day...
...And recently, we've picked up that habit once again.
[player], are you proud of me?
Eh? For what?
You know...
For waking up on time!
Well, you've been doing that for a while now...
Uh-huh!
But you never even said anything about it!
Even though we walk to school together every day...
Well, yeah...
I always thought it was implied.
It's embarrassing to say out loud.
C'mon, please?
It's good motivation~
Fine, fine...
I'm proud of you, Sayori.
Ehehe~
We cross the street together and make our way to school.
As we draw near, the streets become increasingly speckled with other students making their daily commute.
By the way, [player]...
Have you decided on a club to join yet?
A club?
I told you already, I'm really not--
I start to say what I always do - that I'm not interested in joining any clubs.
But something tells me Sayori would take more offense to that now.
After all, how could I tell her that clubs are a waste of time...
...when she's starting a club of her very own?
...Actually, yeah.
I think I've decided on a club.
Really?!
Which one? Tell me!
Hmm...
I think I'll keep it a surprise.
Boo...
You meanie.
Be patient, you'll find out soon enough.
I used to ask myself why I let myself get lectured by such a carefree girl.
But I started to realize that in a way, I envy her.
When Sayori puts her mind to something, she can accomplish great things.
So that's why I feel like I should do something special for her.
The school day is as ordinary as ever, and it's over before I know it.
After I pack up my things, I stand up, gathering my motivation.
Let's see...
I recall the room number of the club from a flier I saw.
I walk across the school and upstairs - a section of the school I rarely visit, being generally used for third-year classes and activities.
Before long, I find the room.
I timidly open the door in front of me.
Hello...?
Ah!
[player]...?!
W-What are you doing here?
Well...I just--
Eh? I glance around the room.
Huh.
So you're the [player] that Sayori's always talking about?
T-Thank you for stopping by!
It's a pleasure to meet you, [player].
We're the Literature Club.
I-I hope you enjoy your visit!
C'mon, Yuri...
No need to be so formal.
He's gonna think we're really strict or something...
Ah...
Sorry, Natsuki...
The tall one, whose name is apparently Yuri, seems to be quite shy compared to the others.
In comparison, the girl named Natsuki - despite her size - seems like the assertive one.
Well, it's nice to meet both of you.
I look forward to working with you.
W-Working...?
[player], don't tell me...
You're...
That's right.
The club I've decided to join is yours, Sayori.
The Literature Club.
Sayori's eyes light up.
...No way.
No way!
Aaaahhhhhh!
Sayori wraps her arms around me, jumping up and down.
H-Hey--
Ehehe.
Well, if Sayori is this happy, then I'm sure it won't be so bad to have you around.
Not to mention there's four of us now.
That means we can become an officially-recognized club.
I don't know what to say!
We have to celebrate!
Huhu.
What an appropriate day for that, isn't it?
Yeah!
After all, Natsuki decided to--
Hey, don't ruin the surprise!
Ehehe, sorry...
Everyone sit down at the table, okay?
How about I make some tea as well?
The girls have a few desks arranged to form a table.
Natsuki and Yuri walk over to the corner of the room, where Natsuki grabs a wrapped tray and Yuri opens the closet.
Still feeling awkward, I take a seat next to Sayori.
Natsuki proudly marches back to the table, tray in hand.
Okaaay, are you ready?
...Ta-daa!
Uwooooah!
Natsuki lifts the foil off the tray to reveal a dozen white, fluffy cupcakes decorated to look like little cats.
The whiskers are drawn with icing, and little pieces of chocolate were used to make ears.
So cuuuute~!
Wow, those look amazing.
Ehehe. Well, you know.
Just hurry and take one!
Sayori grabs one first, then I follow.
It's delicious!
Sayori talks with her mouth full and has already managed to get icing on her face.
I turn the cupcake around in my fingers, looking for the best angle to take a bite.
Natsuki is quiet.
I can't help but notice her sneaking glances in my direction.
Is she waiting for me to take a bite?
I finally bite down.
The icing is sweet and full of flavor - I wonder if she made it herself.
This is really good.
Thank you, Natsuki.
W-Well...of course it is!
I'm a pro, after all!
There's no need to thank me or anything...
As Natsuki struggles to accept the compliment, Yuri returns to the table, carrying a tea set.
She carefully places a teacup in front of each of us before setting down the teapot next to the cupcake tray.
You keep a whole tea set in this classroom?
Don't worry, the teachers gave us permission.
After all, doesn't a hot cup of tea help you enjoy a good book?
Ah... I-I guess...
Ehehe. Already trying to impress our new member, Yuri?
Eh?! T-That's not...
Insulted, Yuri looks away.
I meant that, you know...
I believe you.
Well, tea and reading might not be a pastime for me, but I at least enjoy tea.
I'm glad...
Yuri faintly smiles to herself in relief.
So, [player], what kinds of things do you like to read?
Well... Ah...
Considering how little I've read these past few years, I don't really have a good way of answering that.
...Manga...
I mutter quietly to myself, half-joking.
Natsuki's head suddenly perks up.
It looks like she wants to say something, but she keeps quiet.
N-Not much of a reader, I guess...
...Well, that can change...
What am I saying?
I spoke without thinking after seeing Yuri's sad smile.
Anyway, what about you, Yuri?
Well, let's see...
Yuri traces the rim of her teacup with her finger.
My favorites are usually novels that build deep and complex fantasy worlds.
The level of creativity and craftsmanship behind them is amazing to me.
And telling a good story in such a foreign world is equally impressive.
Yuri goes on, clearly passionate about her reading.
She seemed so reserved and timid since the moment I walked in, but it's obvious by the way her eyes light up that she finds her comfort in the world of books, not people.
But you know, I like a lot of things.
Don't feel intimidated if you don't read much, okay?
I'm certain we can find something that we have in common.
Hey, Yuri...
Eh?
Well, about...you know, the first thing he said...
Manga?
That's right...
Natsuki tends to read manga in the clubroom--
D-Don't just say it!!
For some reason, Natsuki seems embarrassed about it.
Besides...
Manga...is literature too, you know?
So...if [player] wants to read some of my manga, then don't try to stop him or anything!
Natsuki...
I wouldn't do such a thing.
However, it could also be nice for us to diversify ourselves a little...
He can take this opportunity to try something new, as well.
Wouldn't you agree, [player]?
M-Maybe--
Sensing the tension, Sayori jumps in.
Maybe we can all try something new!
I think it could be fun...
And we'll all get to know each other a little bit better, too!
I mean...
that's the kind of thing literature clubs do...right?
...
I-I don't disagree or anything...
Yeah...
You're right as usual, President.
Ehehe~
Guess that means I should try picking up a novel or something, huh...?
Well, that would make two of us...
I wouldn't mind doing it if I'm not the only one.
Then as for Yuri...
Eh...?
I...I have to read manga...?
Jeez...
You were the one who suggested we diversify!
You should be a little more open-minded...
It's kind of hurtful...
Hurtful...?
I-I didn't realize...
...
With a guilty expression, Yuri thinks to herself.
I'm sorry for disrespecting your interests, Natsuki.
If...if you're into it, then I'm sure it's a worthy form of literature.
...Are you just saying that?
No...
I've realized my error.
So, if you're willing to consider starting a novel...
...Then I'll offer my gratitude by finding a manga to read as well.
Really?!
I-I mean...
It...makes me happy that you'd do that for me, Yuri.
You can trust me to find something that you'll really like, okay?
Same here...
Perhaps I'll visit the bookstore after the club meeting.
Just...just you?
A-Ah--
Would you...like to come along with me?
Um...
If you don't mind...
Not at all!
I always go alone, so...
Yeah, me too...
This is so cute~!
Sayori, shut up...
I'll show you some manga there too, okay?
Yes.
I look forward to it.
Natsuki and Yuri start to clean up the food.
Ehehe~
I guess the meeting's over, huh?
Yeah, looks like it...
It's nice to see everyone getting along.
Isn't it?
I think everyone likes you too, [player].
You think so...?
Well, everyone always seems to get along a little better with you around, Sayori.
Aww, [player]~
Don't say something like that, it's embarrassing!
Well, whatever.
I was surprised when you told me you were starting a club...
But I think you're pulling it off just fine.
We're gonna make it the best club ever!
Now that you joined, every day is gonna be so much fun.
Hey, [player]...
I really want to thank you.
I mean, I'm really happy that you joined the club and everything...
But the truth is, I already knew you were going to.
Ehehe~
There's actually something else.
I wanted to thank you for getting rid of Monika.
That's right...
I know everything that she did.
Maybe it's because I'm the President now.
But I really know everything, [player].
Ehehe~
I know how hard you tried to make everyone happy.
I know about all of the awful things that Monika did to make everyone really sad...
But none of that matters anymore.
It's just us now.{nw}
It's just us now.{fast}
And you made me the happiest girl in the whole world.
I can't wait to spend every day like this...
With you.
Forever and ever...
F
o
r
e
v
e
...Eh?
W-What's happening...?
Who...
I-It hurts--
Ah--
[gtext]{nw}
I wanted to thank you for spending so much time with us all.
You worked so hard to make each and every one of us happy.
You comforted us through our hard times.
And you helped us all get along with each other.
Do you get it, [player]?
Because I'm President now, I understand everything.
You really didn't want to miss a single thing in this game, did you?
You saved and loaded so many times, just to make sure you could spend time with everyone.
Only someone who truly cares about the Literature Club would go that far.
But...
All along, that's all I ever wanted.
For everyone to be happy and care about each other.
Ahaha...
It's kind of sad, you know?
After all you've done for us, there isn't much I can do for you in return.
We've already reached the end of the game.
So...
This is where we say goodbye.
Thank you for playing {i}Doki Doki Literature Club{/i}.
I'm going to miss you, [player].
Come visit sometime, okay?
We'll always be here for you.
We...
We all love you.
It's the day of the festival.
Of all days, I expected this to be the one where I'd be walking to school with Sayori.
But Sayori isn't answering her phone.
I considered going to her house to wake her up, but decided that's a little too much.
Meanwhile, the preparations for the event should be nearly complete.
I managed to carry all the cupcakes myself by carefully stacking two trays.
Natsuki is already texting up a storm, but I can't respond, thanks to my hands being full.
The banner Yuri and I painted is dry, and I gently rolled it up to take with me.
She sent me a pleasant text reminding me not to forget anything, and I reassured her.
Funnily enough, I probably feel the same way as Natsuki about the event.
I'm more excited for it to be over so I can spend time with Sayori and [ch4_name] at the festival.
But knowing Monika, I'm sure the event will be great, too.
[player]!
You're the first one here.
Thanks for being early!
That's funny, I thought at least Yuri would be here by now.
Monika is placing little booklets on each of the desks in the classroom.
They must be the ones she prepared that has all the poems we're performing.
In the end, I found a random poem online that I thought Monika would like, and submitted it.
So, that's the one I'll be performing.
I'm surprised you didn't bring Sayori with you.
Yeah, she overslept again...
That dummy.
You'd think that on days this important, she'd try a little harder...
I say that, but I suddenly remember what Sayori told me yesterday...
And I suddenly feel awful, knowing it's not nearly that simple for her.
I only said it because it's the way I'm used to thinking.
But...
Maybe I should have gone to wake her up after all?
Ahaha.
You should take a little responsibility for her, [player]!
I mean, especially after your exchange with her yesterday...
You kind of left her hanging this morning, you know?
Exchange...?
Monika-- You know about that??
Of course I do.
I'm the club president, after all.
But--!
I stammer, embarrassed.
Did Sayori really tell her about it that quickly?
That we're...a couple now?
I didn't really plan on bringing it up with anyone yet...
About how I basically turned down her confession?
That makes me really seem like the bad guy here...
But I'm the one who knows what's best for her, right?
Jeez...
You don't know the full story at all, so...
Don't worry.
I probably know a lot more than you think.
Eh...?
Monika is being as friendly as usual, but for some reason I felt a chill down my spine after hearing that.
Hey, do you want to check out the pamphlets?
They came out really nice!
Yeah, sure.
I grab one of the pamphlets laid out on the desks.
Oh yeah, they really did.
Something like this will definitely help people take the club more seriously.
Yeah, I thought so too!
I flip through the pages.
Each member's poem is neatly printed on its own page, giving it an almost professional feel.
I recognize Natsuki's and Yuri's poems from the ones they performed during our practice.
What's this...?
I flip to Sayori's poem.
It's different from the one she practiced.
It's one that I haven't read before...
Ah--
What is this...?
Reading the poem, I get a pit in my stomach.
[player]?
What's wrong?
Ah, nothing...
This poem feels completely different from everything else Sayori's written.
But more than that...
I-I changed my mind!
I'm going to go get Sayori, so...
Ah--
Well, alright!
Try not to take too long, okay?
I quickly leave the classroom.
Don't strain yourself~
Monika calls that out after me.
I quicken my pace.
What was I thinking?
I should have tried a little bit harder for Sayori.
It's not a big deal to at least wait for her, or help her wake up.
Even the simple gesture of walking her to school makes her really happy.
Besides...
I told her yesterday that things will be the same as they always have been.
That's all she needs, and what I want to give her.
I reach Sayori's house and knock on the door.
I don't expect an answer, since she's not picking up her phone, either.
Like yesterday, I open the door and let myself in.
Sayori?
She really is a heavy sleeper...
I swallow.
I can't believe I ended up doing this after all.
Waking her up in her own house...
That really is something that a boyfriend would do, isn't it?
Isn't that more like something a boyfriend would do?
In any case...
It just feels right.
Outside Sayori's room, I knock on her door.
Sayori?
Wake up, dummy...
There's no response.
I really didn't want to have to enter her room like this...
Isn't it kind of a breach of privacy?
But she really leaves me no choice.
I gently open the door.
{cps=30}.......Sayo--{/cps}{nw}
...
What the hell...?
{i}What the hell??{/i}
Is this a nightmare?
It...has to be.
This isn't real.
There's no way this can be real.
Sayori wouldn't do this.
Everything was normal up until a few days ago.
That's why I can't believe what my eyes are showing me...!
I suppress the urge to vomit.
Just yesterday...
I told Sayori I would be there for her.
I told her I know what's best, and that everything will be okay.
Then why...?
Why would she do this...?
How could I be so helpless?
What did I do wrong?
Confessing to her...
I shouldn't have confessed to her.
That's not what Sayori needed at all.
She even told me how painful it is for others to care about her.
Then why did I confess to her, and make her feel even worse?
Turning down her confession...
That has to have been what pushed her over the edge.
Her agonized scream still echoes in my ears.
Why did I do that to her when she needed me the most?
Why was I so selfish?
This is my fault--!
My swarming thoughts keep telling me everything I could have done to prevent this.
If I just spent more time with her.
Walked her to school.
And remained friends with her, like it always has been...
And gave her what I know she wanted out of our relationship...
...Then I could have prevented this.
I know I could have prevented this!
Screw the Literature Club.
Screw the festival.
I just...lost my best friend.
Someone I grew up with.
She's gone forever now.
Nothing I do can bring her back.
This isn't some game where I can reset and try something different.
I had only one chance, and I wasn't careful enough.
And now I'll carry this guilt with me until I die.
Nothing in my life is worth more than hers...
But I still couldn't do what she needed from me.
And now...
I can never take it back.
Never.
Never.
Never.
Never.
Never...
Ugh...!
I hear Natsuki utter an exasperated sigh from within the closet.
She seems to be annoyed by something.
I approach her, in case she needs a hand.
You looking for something in there?
Freaking Monika...
She never puts my stuff back in the right spot!
What's the point in keeping your collection organized if someone else is just gonna mess it up?
Natsuki slides a bunch of stacked books and boxes across the shelf.
Manga...
You read manga, right?
Ah--
...Sometimes...
Manga is one of those things where you can't admit you're really into it until you figure out where the other person stands.
...How did you know, anyway?
I heard you bring it up at some point.
Besides, it's kind of written on your face.
What's that supposed to mean...?
I-I see...
There's a lone volume of manga amidst a stack of various books on the side of one of the shelves.
Curious, I pull it out of the stack.
{i}There{/i} it is!
Natsuki snatches it out of my hand.
She then turns to a box of manga and slips the volume right into the middle of the rest.
Aah, much better!
Seeing a box set with one book missing is probably the most irritating sight in the world.
I know that feel...
I get a closer look at the box set she's admiring.
Parfait Girls...?
It's a series I've never heard of in my life.
That probably means it's either way out of my demographic, or it's simply terrible.
If you're gonna judge, you can go do it through the glass on that door.
She points to the classroom door.
H-Hey, I wasn't judging anything...!
I didn't even say anything.
It was the tone of your voice.
But I'll tell you one thing, [player].
Consider this a lesson straight from the Literature Club: Don't judge a book by its cover!
In fact--
Natsuki pulls out the first volume of Parfait Girls from the box.
I'm gonna show you exactly why!
She shoves the book right into my hands.
Ah...
I stare at the cover.
It features four girls in colorful attire striking animated feminine poses.
It's...exceedingly "moe".
Don't just stand there!
Uwa--
Natsuki grabs my arm and pulls me out of the closet.
She then takes a seat against the wall, beneath the windowsills.
She pats on the ground next to her, signaling me to sit there.
Wouldn't chairs be more comfortable...?
I take my seat.
Chairs wouldn't work.
We can't read at the same time like that.
Eh? Why's that?
Ah...I guess it's easier to be close together like this...
--!
D-Don't just say that!
You'll make me feel weird about it!
Natsuki crosses her arms and scootches an inch away from me.
Sorry...
I didn't exactly expect to be sitting this close to her, either...
Not that I can say it's a particularly bad thing.
I open the book.
It's only a few seconds before Natsuki once again inches closer, reclaiming the additional space while she hopes I won't notice.
I can feel her peering over my shoulder, much more eager to begin reading than I am.
Wow, how long has it been since I read the beginning...?
Hm?
You don't go back and flip through the older volumes every now and then?
Not really.
Maybe sometimes after I've already finished the series.
Hey, are you paying attention?
Uh...
I am, but nothing's really happened yet, so I can talk at the same time.
It looks like it's about a bunch of friends in high school.
Typical slice-of-life affair.
I kind of grew out of these, since it's rare for the writing to be entertaining enough to make up for the lack of plot.
So...
What should I expect from this?
Is there going to be plot?
Well, obviously!
You think I would enjoy something that didn't have a plot?
I mean...
Well, I guess I know what you're saying...
A lot of the beginning is about simple things...
Like there's a really funny chapter where they're obsessed with a guy at the ice cream shop...
But that just helps you get to know the characters!
And besides, it's still entertaining.
But later on, there's all kinds of drama...
Like when they get into all their backstories, and when some of the romance starts to happen...
That's really what makes it so good.
There are so many touching parts.
Ah, is that so?
It sounds like you really know what you're talking about.
Maybe I underestimated you.
Ehehe.
...Hey, wait!
What's {i}that{/i} supposed to mean?!
Uwa--
Natsuki gives me a little shove.
I just meant that I haven't yet seen you at your full power...
Hmph. Good save.
Ah... This chapter seems like it's about baking.
This is just a guess, but is there a lot of baking in this manga?
Well--
Natsuki pauses for a moment, as if she doesn't want to admit something.
...Yeah.
Why does that matter?
It doesn't, I was just curious...
Since you enjoy baking too, right?
That's--
Just a coincidence!
I just happened to get into baking around the same time I got this manga.
Like I would ever get into anything because it's in a manga.
I feel bad for anyone that impressionable.
Ahaha!
Definitely not a coincidence...
I guess that explains Natsuki's interest in baking.
Still, of all the hobbies to pick up from a manga, that's definitely one of the better ones.
Not to mention she's really good at it, so who am I to judge?
...
We read on for a few more minutes.
I've finished a couple chapters at this point.
...
...Are you sure this isn't boring for you?
It's not!
Even though you're just watching me read?
Well...!
I'm...fine with that.
If you say so...
...I guess it's fun sharing something you like with someone else.
I always get excited when I convince any of my friends to pick up a series I enjoy.
You know what I mean?
...?
Hm?
You don't?
Um...
That's not...
Well, I wouldn't really know.
...What do you mean?
Don't you share your manga with your friends?
Could you not rub it in?
Jeez...
Ah... Sorry...
Hmph.
Like I could ever get my friends to read this...
They just think manga is for kids.
I can't even bring it up without them being all like...
'Eh? You still haven't grown out of that yet?'
Makes me want to punch them in the face...
Urgh, I know those kinds of people...
Honestly, it takes a lot of effort to find friends who don't judge, much less friends who are also into it...
I'm already kind of a loser, so I guess I gravitated toward the other losers over time.
But it's probably harder for someone like you...
Hm.
Yeah, that's pretty accurate.
{i}...Wait, which part??{/i}
I mean, I feel like I can't even keep it in my own room...
I don't even know what my dad would do if he found this.
At least it's safe here in the clubroom.
'Cept Monika was kind of a jerk about it...
Ugh! I just can't win, can I?
Well, it paid off in the end, didn't it?
I mean, here I am, reading it.
Well, it's not like that solves any of my problems.
Maybe...
But at least you're enjoying yourself, right?
--
...
...So?
Ahaha.
Jeez, that's enough!
Are you gonna keep reading, or what?
Yeah, yeah...
I flip the page.
Suddenly, Natsuki starts laughing.
Ahahaha!
I totally forgot that happens!
Natsuki puts her finger on one of the panels.
Minori is my favorite character.
You always feel a little bad for her, since she's so unlucky.
But it gets especially bad when--
Uu...
I shouldn't be talking about that yet!
Just finish this chapter!
Natsuki's voice sparkles with excitement.
It's a stark contrast to her usual bossy tone.
But if she's not used to sharing her favorite manga with her friends, I can understand why.
It's hard to express in words the feeling you get when connecting with someone like that.
And being able to provide that to Natsuki, for whom it's a rare experience...
The thought makes me smile a little to myself.
Okay, everyone!
Eh?
Are you all ready with today's poems?
...
Oh, come on!
Could your timing be any worse?
Sorry~!
I just need to make sure we have enough time.
Though you do look pretty cozy over there. Ahaha!
Eh...?
A-Ah!
Natsuki suddenly notices how close she's gotten to me.
She hastily slides herself a good twelve inches away from me.
Alright...
Guess I'll stop here for now.
I close the book and hand it towards Natsuki.
You're just giving it back...?
Don't you want to know what happens?
Ah... Yeah, but...
Monika just said--
Don't be dumb.
Just take it home with you.
Eh?
...Is that really alright?
I say that mostly because I really didn't plan on using my spare time to read this...
Well, of course.
It would take forever to finish if you didn't take it home.
Just finish that one before tomorrow, so we can start the next one.
And if it gets bent, I'll kill you.
By tomorrow...?
I only got partway through the volume so far.
I might fall behind on some shows if I try to get through this...
But I suppose that's a necessary sacrifice in exchange for seeing Natsuki's enthusiastic face.
Or am I more scared of what will happen if I {i}don't{/i} finish it...?
Alright, then!
I stand up.
I return to where I put my stuff and carefully slip the book into my bag.
...
It's not long before Natsuki comes up to me expectantly.
Yeah, yeah.
Don't worry, I kept my promise.
I pull the first volume of Parfait Girls out from my bag.
Natsuki takes it from my hands, then quickly turns it over, presumably to check for wrinkles.
Hey, I'm not that careless...
I handle manga all the time, you know.
I just wanted to make sure!
Can you blame me for being paranoid?
I don't give people my manga every day, you know.
That's true...
I don't blame you.
Well anyway, let me put this one back.
I'm gonna get the next one, okay?
Natsuki makes her way to the closet.
I follow.
So you're gonna tell me everything you thought, right??
Where did this volume leave off again? I forget.
Ah, the chapter ended when Minori and Alice found--
{i}Monika!!{/i}
Natsuki's voice resonates out from inside the closet.
Eh...?
I peer inside.
All of Natsuki's books are lined up on the top shelf.
Did you move my manga again?!
Ah, sorry, sorry!
The teacher got mad at me for taking up so much space in her closet...
So I had to move some stuff around and clean up a little bit.
It's all still there, I just had to organize it a bit!
Ugh...
The top shelf is far above Natsuki's head.
She makes a futile hop, trying to figure out how to reach her manga.
Jeez...!
This is so inconvenient!
I'm moving these all back down.
There's plenty of room on these shelves.
And besides...
They're really pretty to look at when they're all lined up!
Why would you waste that on the top shelf?
Ah, Natsuki...
There's a stool on the wall there.
In the closet, there's a collapsible stool that's hanging on the wall.
If you want, I can reach up there and hand them to you...
I can get them myself!
Natsuki grabs the stool from the wall and unfolds it.
You think I'm too short or something?
I mean--
I {i}knew{/i} it!
Well, you know what?
Just watch me!
Natsuki hops onto the stool, which ends up being a little wobbly because of its collapsible design.
A-Ah...
Careful...
I know what I'm doing!!
Standing on the stool, Natsuki's fingertips reach the top shelf.
The stool would be enough for me to easily grab the books, but Natsuki is being stubborn as usual.
U-Uuuh...
Natsuki uses her fingers to scoot one of the smaller boxes to the edge of the shelf.
See...?
Kyah--!
The box suddenly tips.
Natsuki barely catches it before it falls to the floor.
The stool wobbles.
Wawaa--
Losing balance, Natsuki hops off the stool.
Thankfully, she was able to stay on her feet.
She holds the box triumphantly.
T-There!
Having almost fell, Natsuki is a bit shaken up.
Jeez...
No need to prove yourself to me.
There's no way you'll be able to get the bigger boxes like that.
I can reach them, so just--
I said I can do it!
I don't want your help, okay?
Sigh...
I'm gonna get a chair, so just hang on.
Natsuki forces her way past me out of the closet.
Let's see...
The classroom chairs have the desks attached, so they're too inconvenient to fit into the closet.
Aha!
Natsuki trots over to the teacher's desk, which has a computer chair behind it.
She rolls it on its wheels back over to the closet.
Ah--
It's a little dangerous, since the chair swivels and rolls.
But I've already learned my lesson, so I keep my mouth shut.
Ush--
Natsuki climbs onto the chair, then slowly balances onto her feet.
Since she refuses my help, I take a seat with my back against the side of the doorway and simply watch.
Aha! There we go!
See? I can easily do it now.
Natsuki grabs a stack of manga and bends down to put it on the shelf below.
W-Wahh--
The chair swivels.
Natsuki catches herself on the shelf.
What are you doing??
Can you at least hold the chair steady instead of sitting and doing nothing?
{i}(Who was it who told me not to help...?){/i}
Yeah, yeah...I got you.
I hold the chair while Natsuki reaches back up.
--!
I can...
{i}I can almost see up her skirt?!{/i}
Guh--
I force myself to turn away.
Natsuki seriously didn't think this through...!
Once she realizes, I'll be dead!
Hup--
Natsuki wraps her arms around the Parfait Girls box set, easily the largest one on the shelf.
Uu...heavy...
Hey, [player]...
I-I don't think I can bend down without falling...!
Hurry and take this one...
Eh?
But then I have to let go of the chair...
That's fine...!
Just for a second!
Hurry up...
Alright...!
Let me just stand up.
I slowly release my grip from the chair.
What do you mean 'stand up'?
Natsuki looks down at me.
Why are you all the way back--
E-Eh...?
Natsuki looks like she just realized something, but she'll lose her balance if she moves.
Natsuki, the box--
{i}W-What are you looking at?!{/i}
--!
You're trying to look at my...m-my...
Natsuki's legs shake.
I-I'm not! I was just--
--Natsuki, don't try to move!
Just give me the box!
You...you perv!
You set me up!!
Go away!
Get out!
But--
I'll do it myself!!
A-Ah--
The chair suddenly swivels beneath Natsuki's feet.
Natsuki--!
{i}Kyaaaaa!{/i}
The scene turns to chaos in a split second.
The chair flies from under Natsuki's feet.
Frantically, I try to catch her.
The box topples out of her hands, and the books go flying.
I got you--
{i}Crash!{/i}
The full force of Natsuki's body against me throws me to the ground.
A whole bunch of books pelt me in the face.
Natsuki tries to shield herself with her own arms as her face lands straight on my chest.
Ungh...
My right arm and my back seriously felt the impact.
U-Uu...
Slowly, Natsuki comes to her senses.
Ghk--!
She presses her arms straight into me to prop herself up.
Eh...?
Natsuki seems to realize that it's not the floor that's beneath her.
G-Guuuuu...!!
Gross! Gross!
Ghak--!
A fist pounds into my chest.
Natsuki then hoists herself to her feet.
What were you thinking?!
You sicko!
Everything okay over there...?
I heard a loud noise...
Monika suddenly peers in.
Monika!
See what happens when you put the manga on the top shelf?!
Are you trying to kill your club members or something?
Jeez!
S-Sorry, sorry!
Ahaha...
Oh, and one more thing.
It seems like your most recent club member is a total pervert.
So I hope you're happy.
I didn't--!
Somehow, it's impossible for me to explain this whole bizarre situation to Monika.
I didn't do anything, I swear...!
I know, I know, don't worry~
Monika says that quietly to me.
Looks like I'm off the hook...
Oh no...!
My...my...
Eh?
I look down.
Natsuki is kneeling on the floor, holding one of the books that are scattered all over.
There's a large diagonal crease along the page that she's desperately trying to smooth out.
Ah, it must have landed on the page...
Natsuki tries a bit more to fix the crease, but she can't get it out.
Suddenly, she gives up and slams the book shut, then throws it to the floor.
Instead of continuing to yell, she just lowers her head.
{i}*Sob*{/i}
...Natsuki, are you--
No!
Natsuki's voice squeaks.
I see tears on her face.
Ah...
I'll help get the crease out, okay?
It's partially my fault, so...
Natsuki shakes her head, still looking down.
No...
I don't even care that much...
I'm just...
Having a really bad day today...
Natsuki sobs again.
I didn't mean to take it out on you...
I really didn't mean to!
It's...it's fine.
...Is there anything you want to talk about?
Natsuki shakes her head.
Just...
Every day...
...is...so hard.
I just want to...
...come to the club and...
...
Natsuki falls silent again.
I can't press her, so I can only do what I know how to do.
Alright...
Well, I'll help clean this up.
And I'll move the rest of your manga for you.
Ah.
I pick up volume 2 of Parfait Girls.
We'll set this one aside.
This'll help cheer you up a bit, right?
We can get started on it once I'm done here.
Natsuki looks up with her glossy eyes.
Her lip quivers.
You're...
You're really nice to me...
Eh?
That sounds really strange, coming from Natsuki.
I didn't expect it at all.
Well...
I'm just treating you like a friend, you know?
Nn...
Natsuki lowers her head and stifles another sob.
I'm not sure what happened to her today, but being nice is the least I could do.
The next couple minutes are silent between us as I begin gathering the scattered books.
I make sure to slip them into the box in their correct order.
After a little bit, Natsuki starts helping.
It isn't long before we're done, and I hoist the box onto the shelf where Natsuki wanted to put it.
Then, I get on the stool and quickly finish moving the rest of her books from the top shelf.
Alright--!
That should do it.
I hop off the stool.
Natsuki averts her gaze.
T-Thanks...
Ahaha...
It's nothing.
Natsuki is holding the volume I set aside in her hands.
Alright, I'm ready.
Good.
Even if you weren't, I'd make you anyway.
You're taking responsibility for what you said.
The thing about cheering me up.
If you insist!
We sit in the same spot as last time, and I open the second volume.
Natsuki's mood quickly improves, laughing and pointing things out to me.
She's surprisingly sharp, making note of a lot of subtle repeated jokes and background elements.
In the end, I'm pretty impressed by how everything ties together in this manga.
I guess Natsuki has good taste after all.
After some time, Monika gets our attention as usual, and it's time to share poems again.
Guess I'll be holding onto this for now.
Yep!
Even you sound more enthusiastic this time.
Well, I'm starting to get into it, you know.
Ehehe.
Told you.
Yeah, yeah...
I return to my seat and slip the book into my bag.
Man...
It looks like no one wants to be bothered today.
I slump down into the nearest desk.
How am I supposed to occupy myself with something literature-related by myself like this?
I guess I could always read some of the book Yuri gave me...
...But I'm feeling a little too tired to read.
I could probably fall asleep right now.
I close my eyes and end up listening in on Sayori's conversation with Monika.
We're probably gonna seem really lame compared to all the other clubs, though...
Hmm...
Well, we can't give up.
The festival is our chance to show everyone what literature is all about!
The problem is that the idea of a literature club sounds too dense and intellectual...
But it's not like that at all, you know?
We just need a way of showing that to everyone...
Something that speaks to their creative minds.
Mmmmmmmmmmm.....
That doesn't solve the problem, though!
Eh? What do you mean?
Even if we come up with the most fun thing ever...
Nobody will come in the first place if it's a literature event.
So it's more important to figure out how to get people to show up in the first place, you know?
And after they come, we can do the thing to speak to their creative minds.
...What's this?
Sayori is taking this really seriously.
It's rare to hear her deliberating like this.
Huh, that's a good point...
In that case, do you think food will do the trick?
W-What kind?!
Ah... Well, I guess we could--
Cupcakes!
Ahaha. Good thinking.
Natsuki would love to do that.
Ah! You're right!
Natsuki makes the best cupcakes!
That works out perfectly~
That wasn't why you suggested it...?
Cupcakes speak to my creative tummy~
...
Cupcakes it is, then.
I'm hungry...
Anyway, we still need to work out the details of the event itself...
I find myself smiling.
In the end, Sayori is still her usual self.
But therein lies the unexpected reason I admire her.
Unlike me, who has trouble finding any motivation at all...
Sayori can put her mind to things and make them come to life.
I suppose that's why I end up letting her get on my case about things.
I can't help but wonder what it would be like to see the world through her eyes...
Uwaa--!
I open my eyes to find Sayori's face filling my vision.
I nearly fall out of my chair.
Ehehe, sorry~
Wait!
Actually, I'm not sorry at all!
It's your fault for sleeping like that!
This isn't the napping club!
Does our school have a napping club...?
You're staying up late again, aren't you?
Now that you're in a club, you're gonna have less time for anime, you know!
You'll need to get used to it!
Don't say that so loud...!
I glance over my shoulder to see if Monika overheard.
It's true, though...
Yeah...
I know, I know.
You're always looking out for me, Sayori.
Ehehe~
It's what I do best!
...That's a problem!
What about you?
You look out for me better than you look out for yourself.
You're still oversleeping every day, aren't you?
Eh?
N-Not every day!
That's not very convincing...
How many days this past week have you gotten up on time?
That's...
...It's a secret!
I knew it...
C'monnnn!
At least give me the benefit of the doubt...
I can't even do that.
Look, Sayori, it's written all over you.
Eh...?
Sayori glances around at herself.
How is it written all over me?
You were clearly in a rush this morning...
Look, your hair is sticking out all around here.
Ah--
I run my fingertips down the side of Sayori's hair, trying to straighten it out.
Man, you really need a brush for this...
My hair is just really hard to get right...
I won't fall for that.
There's more than just your hair.
Look, your bow isn't straight, either.
And there's a toothpaste stain on your collar right here.
I try to wipe off the stain with my finger.
B-But nobody would ever notice that...
Of course they would.
Nobody's gonna tell you about it because they don't want to embarrass you.
Fortunately, I really don't care about that.
Hey, you meanie...
And you don't even keep your blazer buttoned up.
Seriously, Sayori...
Why do you think you don't have a boyfriend yet?
Eh??
That's {i}super{/i} mean!
Sorry, but you'll thank me later...
I start to button her blazer from the bottom.
Once you see how much better it looks, you'll change your mind.
Ehehe~
This is so funny.
What is?
Well...
I was just thinking how weird it is to have a friend who does these kinds of things.
Eh?
D-Don't say that!
You'll make {i}me{/i} feel weird about it, stupid...
It's okay, though.
I'm happy we're like this.
Aren't you?
Ah--
I-I guess...
Hey, be careful...
The button might come off!
Why is this one so hard to close...?
I struggle to fully close the button near her chest.
Does this thing even fit you properly?
Ehehe~
It did when I bought it.
Sigh...
If you ever buttoned it, you would have noticed sooner that it doesn't fit you anymore.
What are you smiling about?
It means my boobs got bigger again!
D-Don't say that out loud!!
Ehehe~
Anyway...
You look much better now, so...
Ah...
...Why does it feel strange to see Sayori's blazer buttoned up like that?
But it's so stuffy...
Uuu...
It's not worth it at all!
Sayori hastily unbuttons her blazer once more.
Phew!
That's so much better~
Sayori puts her arms out and twirls around.
So if I keep it unbuttoned then I won't get a boyfriend, right?
What kind of logic is that?
And why are you saying that like it's a good thing?
Because...
...If I had a boyfriend, then he wouldn't even let you do things like this!
And you take care of me better than anyone else would, anyway...
So that's why I'm keeping it unbuttoned!
Stop saying all these embarrassing things!
Eh?
I didn't say anything embarrassing...
Jeez...
Well anyway, just focus on trying to wake up a little earlier...
Only if you focus on going to bed earlier!
Fine, fine...
It's a deal.
Ehehe~
I guess we really are better at taking care of each other than we are at taking care of ourselves.
Yeah, I guess so, huh...
So maybe you should come wake me up in the morning!
You're doing it again, Sayori...
Aw, but I was joking that time!
Man, it's impossible to tell with you sometimes.
Okay, everyone!
Eh?
Monika suddenly calls out.
Why don't we share the poems we wrote now?
Yay~!
[player], I can't wait to read yours!
Yeah, same...
I fail to sound enthusiastic, but Sayori still trots away to retrieve her poem.
[player], [player]!
Sayori suddenly comes up to me.
I'm gonna go get some supplies from another classroom.
Want to come with me?
Supplies?
What for?
Well, you know how the festival is coming up?
Me and Monika were gonna make some posters and stuff.
So I need to go find some crayons, and markers, and glue sticks...
Ah, I see.
Sure, I'll go with you.
Yaay~
Okay Monika, we'll be back soon!
Ah, are you going with [player] to get the supplies?
There's no need to trouble yourself.
I'd be happy to go with him.
Aw, but I wanted to go!
It's so much fun exploring empty classrooms and stuff!
Hehe, okay, okay.
It was just a suggestion.
See if you can find poster paper too, okay?
Okaay~!
Ready, [player]?
Yep, let's go.
Sayori and I exit the clubroom.
I follow behind as Sayori hums and skips around the hallway.
Honestly...
It feels like I'm taking a kid to the mall or something.
Sayori finds pleasure in the simplest things sometimes.
Hey, Sayori...
What exactly are we doing for the festival, anyway?
I'm not sure how you would make an event out of literature...
Ehehe!
Me and Monika have it all planned out!
Don't you worry~
Is that so...?
Yup!
We're gonna do a poetry performance!
A performance...?
Of what kind?
Well...
Everyone is gonna take turns on stage...
And recite their favorite poems!
Ah...
That sounds...
...Kind of dull?
[player]!
You're not thinking about it the right way at all!
It's not just about reading poems...
It's about performing them!
Like, you say the lines of the poem like...
{i}Between my feet...{/i}
{i}The last remaining flower beckons to me.{/i}
{i}I twist the stem, freeing it from its clinging roots...{/i}
{i}Caressing the final joyous moment between my fingers.{/i}
{i}But to what ends have I summoned this joy?{/i}
{i}For now when I look in every direction...{/i}
{i}The once-prosperous field before me...{/i}
{i}Is but a barren wasteland!{/i}
...
Like that!!
Sayori...
How do I put this...
I'm sure it's just me, but it's impossible for me to take you seriously when you talk like that...
Ehhh?
You meanie!
I'm working super hard on this, you know!
Ah, I know, I know!
I just meant that it's a pretty unordinary contrast to your cute self.
Ahaha! Don't say that, it's embarrassing!
But I guess that means I'm doing a good job~
Yeah, I guess so...
Aaah, I'm so excited!
The festival is going to be so much fun~
Sayori spins herself around in the hallway again.
Hey, [player], this classroom over here is empty!
Let's begin the mission!
The mission, eh...?
It's been a long time since I've spent time with Sayori like this.
But in the end, she hasn't changed one bit.
She's nothing but a ball of sunshine, drawing happy vibes from the world around her.
It's a pretty nostalgic feeling for me.
As the years went by, I began to hole myself up in my room more and more.
So going adventuring with Sayori brings about a special sort of feeling I forgot I had in me.
The two of us enter the classroom.
Sayori heads straight to the closet, and I follow.
Let's see what we have in here...
...Crayons!!
Sayori pulls a box full of crayons off the shelf.
They're the best brand, too!
They're kind of dirty, though...
Sayori starts pulling various crayons out of the box, reading the color names.
Alright, that's one down.
Don't get distracted, we still need to find--
Wait, I'm looking for my favorite color...
Fine, fine...
Then at least move aside so I can look for the poster paper.
Ah, I dropped one by accident--
{i}Smack!{/i}
Kya--!
Sayori bends over and smacks her forehead right into the shelf.
She falls to the floor, and the crayons spill all over her lap.
Owowowowow...
You okay?
My forehead...
Sayori clutches her forehead.
Jeez, Sayori...
That's just like you, isn't it?
C'mon, let me see.
Since Sayori is sitting on the floor, I grab her by the waist and pull her out of the closet.
You have to move your hands, Sayori...
But it hurts...
Just do it for a second.
Sayori slowly releases her hands from her forehead.
I gently brush her bangs to the side.
Ow--!
Sorry...
There's a huge red mark on the center of her forehead.
A bump is starting to form, as well.
Man, that's gonna swell up.
I should find you some ice...
[player]...
Where would I even find ice around this time...?
Ah, I guess a cold drink would do...
You don't have to--!
I'm fine with--looking like a unicorn--
Even wincing from the pain, Sayori makes a silly joke.
Ahaha, what are you saying?
I'll be right back, okay?
O-Okay...
I pat Sayori on the shoulder and run out into the hallway.
I locate the nearest vending machine.
What should I get...?
It doesn't really matter, since it will be used as an ice pack, rather than to drink.
But I know Sayori likes apple juice, so I purchase that one.
In just a moment, I'm already returning to the classroom where I left Sayori.
She has one palm on her forehead and is using the other hand to clumsily scoop crayons back into the box.
At least they were already in the wrong spots before I spilled them...
Sayori, here.
I hand Sayori the bottle of apple juice.
It's nice and cold...
Sayori opens the cap and starts drinking from it.
Sayori, what are you doing?!
It's for your forehead, idiot!
Ah--
Sorry, I forgot~
Ahahaha!
How hard did you hit your head...?
Sayori places the bottle against the bump on her head.
It stings...
Just bear with it, it'll feel better soon.
Looks like you cleaned up most of the crayons, so that's good.
Hey, [player]...
This kind of reminds you of growing up, doesn't it...?
Eh? What do you mean?
You know how we used to play outside all the time...
I would always try to keep up with you.
You were kind of oblivious in some ways...
Like I usually fell behind or had trouble climbing on the things you did...
But sometimes when I tried to do things I couldn't, I would get myself hurt.
I'd fall and scrape myself, or get a bump...
And I would start crying really hard.
Ahaha!
And you would rush over as quick as you could.
You would try really hard to get me to stop crying.
It was almost like you blamed yourself and were afraid of getting in trouble if someone found out...
Even though it really wasn't your fault at all, you know?
Did I really do that...?
Yeah...you don't remember?
Come to think of it, maybe I do remember a bit...
I guess I was always so focused on my games that I didn't pay enough attention to you.
So in a way, it was my fault.
Kind of like this time, too...
If I wasn't rushing you out of the closet, you probably wouldn't have hit your head.
[player]...
I don't think you realize it, but you're always thinking about other people.
Even after all these years...
You're rushing to help me, even though I'm just being clumsy.
You're really a sweetheart...
D-Don't call me that!
And I don't really do this kind of thing all the time...
I guess when it comes to you, it just feels natural.
Before I even know it, I'm treating you like that.
I guess that's what happens when you've been friends for so long.
Really...?
Maybe you're right...
[player]...
I'm so glad that nothing's changed between us.
Do you think it'll be like this forever?
Forever...?
If I'm honest to myself...
There's no telling where we'll each end up for college, or after that.
So it wouldn't be fair for me to make any promises.
But...
Well, I hope so.
It's been this long already, right?
I can't imagine you ever changing, so my hopes are up.
I'm so happy...
Sayori has a whimsical expression in her eyes.
We remain silent for a moment.
She's so silly and clumsy on the outside that when I see her deep in thought like this...
It makes me not want to disturb her.
I guess we should go back...
I don't want to worry Monika, you know?
Good luck with that.
She's gonna see your forehead either way.
Not if I hide it under my bangs~
Sayori hops to her feet.
A-Aaahh--!
She clutches her forehead again.
Don't stand up so fast after hurting yourself!
Uuuu...
Well, I guess it's too late now...
Anyway, let's go.
I follow Sayori out of the classroom.
Sayori plays with her bangs to try to hide the bump, but without much success.
In a moment, we make it back to the clubroom.
Ah, you're back!
Good timing, I was just about ready to start with sharing our poems.
Eh? Sayori, your forehead...
She's fine, don't worry about--
I was playing with the crayons and smacked my forehead into the shelf!
...
...
...Well, anyway!
Were you able to find everything we needed?
Uh-huh! I have it right--
...Eh?
Sayori frantically glances around herself.
I...forgot all of the stuff!!
Calm down, Sayori.
I have it all right here.
I found the poster paper, too.
Ahaha!
Sounds like you ended up doing all the work, [player].
Ah, well, Sayori--
I fail to come up with an excuse for Sayori.
I made it an adventure!
...Yeah, that.
Ahaha, okay, okay.
In any case, good work!
I'll start working on the posters tonight.
Me too!
...Okay, everyone!
Are you ready to share your poems?
Guess I should grab mine...
After making sure the crayon box is closed tightly, I return to my seat.
I'm really curious to talk to Yuri a little bit more...
But at the same time, I would feel bad for distracting her from reading.
I catch a glimpse of the cover of her book.
It looks like the same book that she lent to me...
More than that, she seems to be on the first few pages.
Ah...
Crap--
I think she noticed me looking at her...
She sneaks another glance at me, and our eyes meet for a split second.
...
But that only makes her hide her face deeper in her book.
Sorry...
I was just spacing out...
I mutter this, sensing I made her uncomfortable.
Oh...
It's fine...
If I was focused, then I probably wouldn't have noticed in the first place.
But I'm just re-reading a bit of this, so...
That's the book that you gave me, right?
Mhm.
I wanted to re-read some of it.
Not for any particular reason...!
Just curious, how come you have two copies of the same book?
Ah...
Well, when I stopped at the bookstore yesterday--
Ah, that's not what I meant...
I mean--
I...just happened to buy two of them.
Ah, I see.
There's something fairly obvious here that Yuri isn't telling me, but I decide to let it go.
I'll definitely start reading it soon!
I'm glad to hear...
Once it starts to pick up, you might have a hard time putting it down.
It's a very engaging and relatable story.
Is that so...?
What's it about, anyway?
Well...
Mmm...
Yuri closes the book and scans her eyes over the back.
The book is titled "Portrait of Markov".
There's an ominous-looking eye symbol on the front cover.
Alright...
I just wanted to make sure I don't accidentally give anything away.
Basically, it's about this girl in high school who moves in with her long-lost younger sister...
But as soon as she does so, her life gets really strange.
She gets targeted by these people who escaped from a human experiment prison...
And while her life is in danger, she needs to desperately choose who to trust.
No matter what she does, she ends up destroying most of her relationships and her life starts to fall apart...
That's kind of--!
That's kind of dark, isn't it?
Yuri made it sound like it was going to be a nice story, so that dark turn came from nowhere.
Ahaha.
Yuri gently giggles, all of a sudden.
Are you not a fan of that sort of thing, [player]?
No, it's not that...
I mean, I can definitely enjoy those kinds of stories, so don't worry.
I hope so...
Yeah... I totally forgot that Yuri is into those things.
She's so shy and reclusive on the outside, but her mind seems to be completely different.
It's just that those kinds of stories...
They challenge you to look at life from a strange new perspective.
When horrible things happen not just because someone wants to be evil...
But because they have their own goals, or their own philosophy that they believe in.
Then suddenly, when you thought you related to the protagonist...
They're made out to be the naive one for letting their one-sided morals interfere with the villain's plans.
I'm...I'm rambling, aren't I...?
Not again...
I'm sorry...
Hey, don't apologize...!
I haven't lost interest or anything.
Well...
I guess it's alright, then...
But I feel like I should let you know that I have this problem...
When I let things like books and writing fill my thoughts...
I kind of forget to pay attention to other people...
So I'm sorry if I end up saying something strange!
And please stop me if I start talking too much!
That's--
I really don't think you need to worry...
That just means you're passionate about reading.
The least I can do is listen.
It's a literature club, after all...
Ah--
That's...
Well, that's true...
In fact...
I might as well get started reading it, right?
Y-You don't have to!
Ahaha, what are you saying?
Just a moment ago, you said you were looking forward to it.
...
Let me just get the book...
I quickly retrieve the book that I had put into my bag.
Alright...it's fine if I sit here, right?
I slip into the seat next to Yuri's.
Ah...!
Yeah...
Are you sure?
You seem a little apprehensive...
That's...
I'm sorry...
It's not that I don't want you to!
It's just something I'm not very used to...
That is, reading in company with someone.
I see...
Well, just tell me if I end up distracting you or anything.
A-Alright...
I open the book and start the prologue.
I soon understand what Yuri means about reading in company.
It's as if I can feel her presence over my shoulder as I read.
It's not a particularly bad thing.
Maybe a little distracting, but the feeling is somewhat comforting.
Yuri is in the corner of my eye.
I realize that she's not actually looking at her own book.
I glance over.
It looks like she's reading from my book instead--
S-Sorry!
I was just--!
Yuri, you really apologize a lot, don't you?
I...I do?
I don't really mean to...
Sorry...
I mean--!
Ahaha.
Here, this should work, right?
I slide my desk until it's up against Yuri's, then hold my book more between the two of them.
Ah...
I suppose so...
Yuri timidly closes her own copy.
Once we each lean in a little bit, our shoulders are almost touching.
It feels like my left arm is in the way, so instead I use my right hand to hold the book open.
Ah, I guess that makes it kind of difficult to turn the page...
Here...
Yuri takes her left arm and holds the left side of the book between her thumb and forefinger.
Ah...
I do the same with my right arm, on the right side of the book.
That way, I turn a page, and Yuri slides it under her thumb after it flips to her side.
But in holding it like this...
We're huddled even closer together than before.
It's actually kind of distracting me...!
It's as if I can feel the warmth of Yuri's face, and she's in the corner of my vision...
...Are you ready?
Eh?
To turn the page...
Ah...sorry!
I think I got a bit distracted for a second...
I glance over at Yuri's face again, and our eyes meet.
I don't know how I'll be able to keep up with her...
Ah...
That's okay.
You're not as used to reading, right?
I don't mind being patient if it takes you a bit longer...
It's probably the least I can do...
Since you've been so patient with me...
Y-Yeah...
Thanks.
We continue reading.
Yuri no longer asks me if I'm ready to turn the page.
Instead, I just assume that she finishes the page before me, so I turn it by my own volition.
We continue the first chapter in silence.
Even so, turning each page almost feels like an intimate exchange...
My thumb gently letting go of the page, letting it flutter over to her side as she catches it under her own thumb.
Hey, Yuri...
This might be a silly thought, but...
The main character kind of reminds me of you a little bit.
You...think so?
How does she?
Well, I guess she's more blunt in a lot of ways...
But she also second-guesses all of the things that she says and does.
Like she's afraid she'll do something wrong.
It's not like I can see into your head or anything...
But they're kind of reminiscent of some of your mannerisms.
I-I see...
Yuri remains silent for a moment.
But [player]...
That's probably...
...a terrible thing to have in common with her!
Uuuh, that's so embarrassing that you think that...
W-Wait!
I didn't mean it in a bad way or anything!
Sorry, I really didn't know you were self-conscious about that sort of thing...
...
I guess I more meant that it's kind of cute...
A-Ah--
What are you saying all of a sudden...?
I...!
Okay, everyone!
...!
I think it's about time we share today's poems with each other.
We might not have enough time if we wait too long.
Ah...
Yuri exhales, spared from finishing her thought.
Is that alright, Yuri?
You look kind of down...
I'm sorry if you haven't been looking forward to this...
Ah, it's not...
...It's fine.
Yuri releases her hand from the book, causing it to close on top of my thumb.
Alright...
I guess I'll do some more reading tonight.
Or would you prefer I only read it with you?
Um...!
I...guess I don't have too much of a preference either way...
Hmm...
In that case, I'll read a little more tonight.
It'll be more fun to read with you after it picks up a bit, you know?
That's good reasoning.
In that case, feel free to finish the first two chapters in your own time.
Alright!
I stand up.
I make a mental note of where I left off in the book, then slip it back into my bag.
Hey, Yuri.
Eh?
Ah...
I suddenly notice that Yuri is reading a different book from the one we've been reading together.
Sorry! I didn't mean to interrupt...
Ah, no...
I was kind of just waiting for you...
Ah, if that's the case...
Why don't we go ahead and get started?
Yes, let's!
Actually, I have a request...
...Do you mind if I make some tea first?
Not at all.
Thanks very much.
If there's one thing that can make my reading time here any better, it's a nice cup of tea.
Not to mention for yourself, as well.
Yuri stands up and makes her way to the closet.
I follow and watch as she retrieves a small water pitcher from the shelf - the kind with a filter inside.
Can you hold this for a second?
Sure...
Yuri hands me the water pitcher and also fetches an electric kettle.
I'm going to plug this in at the teacher's desk, and then we'll go get some water.
She walks past me and sets the kettle down on the teacher's desk.
I simply watch her movements.
To my surprise, the way she moves really contrasts her speaking mannerisms.
Especially because of her long legs, Yuri appears elegant and methodical.
Okay, may I have the water pitcher?
Thanks. I'll be right back.
Ah, I might as well walk with you...
Yeah...why not?
Shall we go, then?
Yeah...
Hm? Where are you two off to?
Eh?
We're just...Yuri was going to make some tea, so...
I suddenly realize how weird it sounds to explain this to Monika.
We're just filling the water pitcher...
Ah, okay!
Sorry, I was just a bit curious...
That's kind of a one-person job, isn't it?
That's--
Monika, please mind your own business for once.
Or do you want to tell me there's something wrong with helping involve [player] in club activities?
E-Eh...?
--!
My mouth gapes.
I...
I suppose there's nothing wrong with that...
Hmph...
Then let's go, [player].
Ah...
Yuri quickly exits the room, and I follow.
Once in the hallway, she suddenly puts her forehead against the wall.
I spoke without thinking...
How could I say something like that...?
Yuri...
I just...
Something about the way she said that...
It made me feel so...irritated.
What's wrong with me...?
No, Yuri.
I think...you did the right thing!
I wasn't expecting it, but...
It's also not right for Monika to judge people like that.
[player]...
How come even when I do something bad...
You're being nice to me?
Because.
Nothing that you do is as bad as you make it seem in your head.
Nobody's perfect.
We have emotions, and we can't always hide them away.
But you always amplify things in your head...
Your mind turns a light rain shower into a hurricane.
Ah...
N-No...
Wouldn't you hate me for something as terrible as that...?
Why would I hate you?
I can't hate someone for having emotions...
What kind of friend would do that?
Friend...you say?
Ah...um...
Yuri lifts her head.
[player]...
I really like...being friends with you!
Ahaha...
Thanks, Yuri.
I like being friends with you too...
I feel kind of awkward saying something like that...
But I'm doing my best to help Yuri feel better.
Anyway...!
Ah-- Yeah...
Shall we go?
Yeah.
Yuri and I walk to the nearest water fountain.
Once we fill up the water pitcher, we return to the classroom.
[player], do you like oolong tea?
Ah, yeah.
Anything is fine.
Very well.
Yuri sets the temperature on the kettle to 200 degrees.
Now it's time to get the teapot.
You really do this properly, don't you?
Of course...
I shouldn't do any less when I'm making tea for others.
Even if I'm not an expert on tea or anything...?
Huhu.
In that case, you'll only be even more impressed.
Ah...perhaps I will!
Yuri fetches the teapot and begins measuring the tea leaves.
To my surprise, she even starts humming a little to herself.
You must be in a good mood now...
Is that so?
I was letting it show...
And you noticed.
I was doing a bit of thinking...
And I decided that I would try expressing myself a little bit more.
It turns out it's not very hard for me to do...
When it's you who's around, anyway.
Ah...
That's great, Yuri!
Just don't push yourself too much.
You're always worrying about me, [player]...
It's very endearing.
That's...
Yuri wasn't kidding...
I don't even know if I can keep up with this...!
I watch Yuri pour a cup of tea for each of us.
[player], I have another request.
Do you mind if we sit on the floor today?
Eh? Why's that?
It's a little bit easier on my back...
I can read with my back against the wall rather than bending over at my desk.
Ah, sorry, I didn't realize.
No worries.
I just have back pain fairly regularly, so I do my best to manage it.
Is that so?
I wonder why that is...
It's most likely because my--
Ah--
M-My...
Your posture, right?
Always hunched over like that while reading...
Yes!
I have terrible reading posture!
So that's why we should sit on the floor.
Fair enough.
I'll go ahead and get the book.
I retrieve the book from my bag.
Ah, I have some chocolate as well...
It's a bag of small chocolate candies that I kept hidden from Sayori's candy radar.
I take it, since it'll go well with the tea.
Yuri and I then sit against the wall, teacups at our sides.
As if in sync, we assume the same reading position as last time, each holding one half of the book.
Except this time...
Our bodies are even closer to each other.
I can't see too well...
--!
Yuri slides closer until our shoulders are touching.
How am I supposed to focus on reading like this...?!
Yuri was always kind of cute, but...
When she's being less apprehensive, it's almost more than I can handle!
Your teacup...
Yuri hands me my teacup.
Holding it with my hand that's not holding the book, I end up in a position that makes it even harder to focus.
Because now I need to worry about making sure I don't accidentally touch her chest...!
Meanwhile, Yuri hasn't noticed a single thing.
She wears her intense reading expression, and I can only presume the world around her has faded away.
I use all of my willpower to focus on reading.
...
After a few minutes, I finally manage to relax a little.
I put the teacup between my legs and fumble with the chocolate wrapper.
Ah, sorry...
I briefly let go of the book to finish opening the wrapper.
You can have as much as you want.
Ah, that's...
That's okay, I won't take any...
Eh? Are you sure?
Well...
If I touch it, then it might get smudges on the pages...
Ah, you're right...
I didn't even think about that.
My bad...
No need to apologize.
I'll hold the book, okay?
Are you sure...?
Of course.
Yuri opens the book with both hands.
She holds it so that I don't have any harder of a time reading from it.
But as a result, her left arm is practically resting on top of my leg.
Well, in that case...
Yuri is already totally focused on reading again.
I take a chocolate candy and pop it into my mouth.
Then, I take another chocolate...
And I hold it up to Yuri.
She doesn't even look away from the book.
She simply parts her lips, as if this situation was completely natural.
But that means I can't stop here!
I apprehensively place the chocolate in her mouth.
Just like that, Yuri closes her lips over it.
Eh...?
Yuri's expression suddenly breaks.
Did...
Did I just...
Yuri looks at me like she needs to confirm what just happened.
U-Um...
[player]...
S-Sorry!
I guess I shouldn't have done that...
Ah, that's...
Well...
Y-You were just helping...
That's something that...friends do...
...Right?
I mean...
Not really in this kind of context, but...
Yeah...
...That's all it was.
Yeah...
Then...
You don't need to stop or anything...
I-I see...
The situation has gotten really tense...
Yuri tries to return to the book.
But I can tell just by her expression that even she can't focus now.
My heart is pounding...
I nervously take another chocolate between my fingers.
But this time, Yuri's eyes meet mine.
...
How did it even come to this...?
Yuri doesn't avert her gaze.
I notice her chest rising and falling to the rhythm of her breaths.
I raise my arm...
Ah...
Like before, Yuri parts her lips.
But...it's different this time.
I take the chocolate and place it in her mouth.
I feel her hot breath on my fingers.
Okay, everyone!
Uwa--
A-Ah!
Yuri jolts back.
It's time to share poems!
[player], you can help Yuri put away the tea stuff, right?
Y-Yeah...of course.
Okay, thanks!
The spell is abruptly broken.
I'll...
I'll take care of the cups...
Yeah...
Yuri picks up the teacups from the floor.
I pick up the bag of chocolates.
In the end, we hastily clean up without so much as a word between us.
I get the feeling this is something neither of us will have the courage to bring up...
Ugh...!
I hear Natsuki utter an exasperated sigh from within the closet.
She seems to be annoyed by something.
I approach her, in case she needs a hand.
You looking for something in there?
fucking monikammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
She never puts my stuff back in the right spot!
What's the point in keeping your collection organized if someone else is just gonna mess it up?
Natsuki slides a bunch of stacked books and boxes across the shelf.
Manga...
You read manga, right?
Ah--
...Sometimes...
Manga is one of those things where you can't admit you're really into it until you figure out where the other person stands.
...How did you know, anyway?
I heard you bring it up at some point.
Besides, it's kind of written on your face.
What's that supposed to mean...?
I-I see...
There's a lone volume of manga amidst a stack of various books on the side of one of the shelves.
Curious, I pull it out of the stack.
{i}There{/i} it is!
Natsuki snatches it out of my hand.
She then turns to a box of manga and slips the volume right into the middle of the rest.
Aah, much better!
Seeing a box set with one book missing is probably the most irritating sight in the world.
I know that feel...
I get a closer look at the box set she's admiring.
Parfait Girls...?
It's a series I've never heard of in my life.
That probably means it's either way out of my demographic, or it's simply terrible.
If you're gonna judge, you can go do it through the glass on that door.
She points to the classroom door.
H-Hey, I wasn't judging anything...!
I didn't even say anything.
It was the tone of your voice.
But I'll tell you one thing, [player].
Consider this a lesson straight from the Literature Club:{nw}
don't judge a bookkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkk kk{space=20}k{space=40}k{space=120}k{space=160}k{space=200}k
In fact--
Natsuki pulls out the first volume of Parfait Girls from the box.
I'm gonna show you exactly why!
She shoves the book right into my hands.
Ah...
I stare at the cover.
It features four girls in colorful attire striking animated feminine poses.
It's...exceedingly "moe".
Don't just stand there!
Uwa--
Natsuki grabs my arm and pulls me out of the closet.
She then takes a seat against the wall, beneath the windowsills.
She pats on the ground next to her, signaling me to sit there.
Wouldn't chairs be more comfortable...?
I take my seat.
Chairs wouldn't work.
We can't read at the same time like that.
Eh? Why's that?
Ah...I guess it's easier to be close together like this...
--!
D-Don't just say that!
You'll make me feel weird about it!
Natsuki crosses her arms and scootches an inch away from me.
Sorry...
I didn't exactly expect to be sitting this close to her, either...
Not that I can say it's a particularly bad thing.
I open the book.
It's only a few seconds before Natsuki once again inches closer, reclaiming the additional space while she hopes I won't notice.
I can feel her peering over my shoulder, much more eager to begin reading than I am.
Wow, how long has it been since I read the beginning...?
Hm?
You don't go back and flip through the older volumes every now and then?
Not really.
Maybe sometimes after I've already finished the series.
Hey, are you paying attention?
Uh...
I am, but nothing's really happened yet, so I can talk at the same time.
It looks like it's about a bunch of friends in high school.
Typical slice-of-life affair.
I kind of grew out of these, since it's rare for the writing to be entertaining enough to make up for the lack of plot.
...Are you sure this isn't boring for you?
It's not!
Even though you're just watching me read?
Well...!
I'm...fine with that.
If you say so...
...I guess it's fun sharing something you like with someone else.
I always get excited when I convince any of my friends to pick up a series I enjoy.
You know what I mean?
...?
Hm?
You don't?
Um...
That's not...
Well, I wouldn't really know.
...What do you mean?
Don't you share your manga with your friends?
Could you not rub it in?
Jeez...
Ah... Sorry...
Hmph.
Like I could ever get my friends to read this...
They just think manga is for kids.
I can't even bring it up without them being all like...
'Eh? You still haven't grown out of that yet?'
Makes me want to punch them in the face...
Urgh, I know those kinds of people...
Honestly, it takes a lot of effort to find friends who don't judge, much less friends who are also into it...
I'm already kind of a loser, so I guess I gravitated toward the other losers over time.
But it's probably harder for someone like you...
Hm.
Yeah, that's pretty accurate.
{i}...Wait, which part??{/i}
I mean, I feel like I can't even keep it in my own room...
My dad would beat the shit out of me if he found this.
At least it's safe here in the clubroom.
'Cept Monika's kind of a jerk about it...
Ugh! I just can't win, can I?
Well, it paid off in the end, didn't it?
I mean, here I am, reading it.
Well, it's not like that solves any of my problems.
Maybe...
But at least you're enjoying yourself, right?
--
...
...So?
Ahaha.
Jeez, that's enough!
Are you gonna keep reading, or what?
Yeah, yeah...
I flip the page.
...
...
.....
.......
.........
Time passes.
Natsuki is strangely quiet now.
I glance over at her.
It looks like she's started to fall asleep.
Hey, Natsuki...
Y-Yeah...?
Suddenly, Natsuki collapses straight into me.
H-Hey--
{color=#000}[ntext]{/color}
{color=#000}[ntext]{/color}
Oh jeez...
Natsuki, are you okay?
...
Here...
Monika reaches into her bag and pulls out some kind of protein bar.
She throws it in Natsuki's direction.
Natsuki's eyes suddenly light up again.
She snatches the bar from the floor and immediately tears off the wrapper.
I told you not to give mmph...
She doesn't even finish her sentence before stuffing it into her mouth.
Don't worry, [player].
She's fine.
It just happens every now and then.
That's why I always keep a snack in my bag for her.
Anyway...!
Why don't we all share poems now?
I'm really curious to talk to Yuri a little bit more...
But at the same time, I would feel bad for distracting her from reading.
I catch a glimpse of the cover of her book.
It looks like the same book that she lent to me...
More than that, she seems to be on the first few pages.
Ah...
Crap--
I think she noticed me looking at her...
She sneaks another glance at me, and our eyes meet for a split second.
...
But that only makes her hide her face deeper in her book.
Sorry...
I was just spacing out...
I mutter this, sensing I made her uncomfortable.
Oh...
It's fine...
If I was focused, then I probably wouldn't have noticed in the first place.
But I'm just re-reading a bit of this, so...
That's the book that you gave me, right?
Mhm.
I wanted to re-read some of it.
Not for any particular reason...!
Just curious, how come you have two copies of the same book?
Ah...
Well, when I stopped at the bookstore yesterday--
Ah, that's not what I meant...
I mean--
I...just happened to buy two of them.
Ah, I see.
There's something fairly obvious here that Yuri isn't telling me, but I decide to let it go.
I'll definitely start reading it soon!
I'm glad to hear...
Once it starts to pick up, you might have a hard time putting it down.
It's a very engaging and relatable story.
Is that so...?
What's the story about, anyway?
Well...
Mmm...
I look at the cover of the book.
The book is titled "Portrait of Markov".
There's an ominous-looking eye symbol on the front cover.
Basically, it's about this religious camp that was turned into a human experiment prison...
And the people trapped there have this trait that turns them into killing machines that lust for blood.
But the facility gets even worse, and they start selectively breeding people by cutting off their limbs and affixing them to--
O-Oh, that might be a little bit of a spoiler...
But anyway, I-I'm really into it!
...The book, I mean!
N-Not the thing about the limbs...
That's kind of--!
That's kind of dark, isn't it?
Yuri made it sound like it was going to be a nice story, so that dark turn came from nowhere.
Ah...
Are you not a fan of that sort of thing, [player]?
No, it's not that...
I mean, I can definitely enjoy those kinds of stories, so don't worry.
I hope so...
Yeah... I totally forgot that Yuri is into those things.
She's so shy and reclusive on the outside, but her mind seems to be completely different.
It's just that this kind of story...
It's the kind that challenges you to look at life from a strange new perspective.
When horrible things happen not just because someone wants to be evil...
But because the world is full of horrible people, and we're all worthless anyway.
Then, suddenlyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy{nw}
I'm...I'm rambling, aren't I...?
Not again...
I'm sorry...
Hey, don't apologize...!
I haven't lost interest or anything.
Well...
I guess it's alright, then...
But I feel like I should let you know that I have this problem...
When I let things like books and writing fill my thoughts...
my whole body gets incredibly [gtext]{nw}
I kind of forget to pay attention to other people...
So I'm sorry if I end up saying something strange!
And please stop me if I start talking too much!
That's--
I really don't think you need to worry...
That just means you're passionate about reading.
The least I can do is listen.
It's a literature club, after all...
Ah--
That's...
Well, that's true...
In fact...
I might as well get started reading it, right?
Y-Yes!
I-I mean, you don't have to, but...!
Ahaha, what are you saying?
...
Let me just get the book...
I quickly retrieve the book that I had put into my bag.
Alright...it's fine if I sit here, right?
I slip into the seat next to Yuri's.
Ah...!
Yeah...
Are you sure?
You seem a little apprehensive...
That's...
I'm sorry...
It's not that I don't want you to!
It's just something I'm not very used to...
That is, reading in company with someone.
I see...
Well, just tell me if I end up distracting you or anything.
A-Alright...
I open the book and start the prologue.
I soon understand what Yuri means about reading in company.
It's as if I can feel her presence over my shoulder as I read.
It's not a particularly bad thing.
Maybe a little distracting, but the feeling is somewhat comforting.
Yuri is in the corner of my eye.
I realize that she's not actually looking at her own book.
I glance over.
It looks like she's reading from my book instead--
S-Sorry!
I was just--!{nw}
I was just{fast} bathing in the feeling of your body heat tttttttttttttheat eattttttt{nw}
Yuri, you really apologize a lot, don't you?
I...I do?
I don't really mean to...
Sorry...
I mean--!
Ahaha.
Here, this should work, right?
I slide my desk until it's up against Yuri's, then hold my book more between the two of them.
Ah...
I-I suppose so...
Yuri timidly closes her own copy.
Once we each lean in a little bit, our shoulders are almost touching.
It feels like my left arm is in the way, so instead I use my right hand to hold the book open.
Ah, I guess that makes it kind of difficult to turn the page...
Here...
Yuri takes her left arm and holds the left side of the book between her thumb and forefinger.
Ah...
I do the same with my right arm, on the right side of the book.
That way, I turn a page, and Yuri slides it under her thumb after it flips to her side.
But in holding it like this...
We're huddled even closer together than before.
It's actually kind of distracting me...!
It's as if I can feel the warmth of Yuri's face, and she's in the corner of my vision...
...Are you ready?
Eh?
To turn the page...
Ah...sorry!
I think I got a bit distracted for a second...
I glance over at Yuri's face again, and our eyes meet.
I don't know how I'll be able to keep up with her...
Ah...
That's okay.
You're not as used to reading, right?
I don't mind being patient if it takes you a bit longer...
It's probably the least I can do...
Since you've been so patient with me...
Y-Yeah...
Thanks.
We continue reading.
Yuri no longer asks me if I'm ready to turn the page.
Instead, I just assume that she finishes the page before me, so I turn it by my own volition.
We continue the first chapter in silence.
Even so, turning each page almost feels like an intimate exchange...
My thumb gently letting go of the page, letting it flutter over to her side as she catches it under her own thumb.
Hey, Yuri...
This might be a silly thought, but...
The main character kind of reminds me of you a little bit.
E-Eh??
N-No, I don't relate to this character at all!
Definitely not!
Really...?
I was just thinking the way she second-guesses things she says, and all that...
A-Ah...
That's what you were talking about...
Sorry...
I thought you meant...something else about her.
Something else...?
N-Never mind!
We didn't even get that far yet...
So I don't know why that came into my head...
Ahaha!
Yuri, are you feeling alright?
Eh--?
Yuri's been a little fidgety ever since we started reading...
You can rest if you're feeling sick or something.
Your breathing is a little...
My breathing...?
Yuri puts her hands on her chest, as if to feel her heartbeat.
I-I didn't...even notice...
...Anyway, I'm fine!
I just need some water...!
Alright...don't push yourself.
Yuri stands up and practically rushes out of the classroom.
What on Earth was that about...?
[player]?
Did something happen just now?
Eh?
I have no idea...
Yuri was acting a little strange, I guess...
So you don't know anything...
Sorry, I can't say I do.
Are you worried about her?
Oh...no, not really.
I was just making sure that you didn't do anything to her.
N-No, nothing!
Ahaha, don't worry...I believe you, silly.
Yuri just does this sometimes, so it's nothing alarming.
Alright...if you say so.
Anyway, why don't we start with sharing our poems with each other?
Eh?
Shouldn't we wait for Yuri?
Well, she might be a while, so I just figured we'd get started without her.
Is that okay?
Yeah, I was just asking...
I stand up.
I make a mental note of where I left off in the book, then slip it back into my bag.
Hey, Yuri.
Eh?
Ah...
I suddenly notice that Yuri is reading a different book from the one we've been reading together.
Sorry! I didn't mean to interrupt...
Ah, no...
I was kind of just waiting for you...
Ah, if that's the case...
Why don't we go ahead and get started?
Yes, let's!
Actually, I have a request...
...Do you mind if I make some tea first?
Not at all.
Thanks very much.
If there's one thing that can make my reading time here any better, it's a nice cup of tea.
Not to mention for yourself, as well.
Yuri stands up and makes her way to the closet.
I follow and watch as she retrieves a small water pitcher from the shelf - the kind with a filter inside.
Can you hold this for a second?
Sure...
Yuri hands me the water pitcher and also fetches an electric kettle.
I'm going to plug this in at the teacher's desk, and then I'll go get some water.
She walks past me and sets the kettle down on the teacher's desk.
I simply watch her movements.
To my surprise, the way she moves really contrasts her speaking mannerisms.
Especially because of her long legs, Yuri appears elegant and methodical.
Okay, may I have the water pitcher?
Thanks. I'll be right back.
Ah, I might as well walk with you...
T-That's okay!
You stay here...
It won't take long.
Pitcher in hand, Yuri hurries out of the classroom.
Ah...
Did Yuri leave you again?
No, it's not like that this time.
She's just filling up the water pitcher to make tea.
Oh, okay!
Sorry for misunderstanding~
...
Ten minutes pass.
Yuri said it wouldn't take long...
Is something holding her up?
I'm bored just waiting here, so I decide to go look for her.
Let's see...
The most logical place for Yuri to be would be the nearest water fountain...
I start heading down the hallway.
Haah.....haah....
....Haah.....haah....
...What's that noise?
It's coming from around the corner...
It sounds like breathing.
Khhhhh--
A sharp inhale, like someone is sucking the air through their teeth.
Are they in pain...?
I reach the corner and peer around it.
Yuri...?
Kya--!
{cps=*3}Yuri...?{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}I reach the corner and peer around it.{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}Are they in pain...?{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}A sharp inhale, like someone is sucking the air through their teeth.{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}Khhhhh--{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}It sounds like breathing.{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}It's coming from around the corner...{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}...What's that noise?{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}....Haah.....haah....{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}Haah.....haah....{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}I start heading down the hallway.{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}The most logical place for Yuri to be would be the nearest water fountain...{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}Let's see...{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}I'm bored just waiting here, so I decide to go look for her.{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}Is something holding her up?{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}Yuri said it wouldn't take long...{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}Ten minutes pass.{/cps}{nw}
{cps=*3}...{/cps}{nw}
I'm back.
Thanks for waiting patiently.
[player], do you like oolong tea?
Ah, yeah.
Anything is fine.
Very well.
Yuri sets the temperature on the kettle to 200 degrees.
Now it's time to get the teapot.
You really do this properly, don't you?
Of course...
I shouldn't do any less when I'm making tea for others.
Even if I'm not an expert on tea or anything...?
Huhu.
In that case, you'll only be even more impressed.
Ah...perhaps I will!
Yuri fetches the teapot and begins measuring the tea leaves.
To my surprise, she even starts humming a little to herself.
You must be in a good mood now...
Is that so?
I was letting it show...
And you noticed.
I was doing a bit of thinking...
And I decided that I would try expressing myself a little bit more.
It turns out it's not very hard for me to do...
When it's you who's around, anyway.
Ah...
That's great, Yuri!
Just don't push yourself too much.
You're always worrying about me, [player]...
It's very endearing.
That's...
Yuri wasn't kidding...
I don't even know if I can keep up with this...!
I watch Yuri pour a cup of tea for each of us.
[player], I have another request.
Do you mind if we sit on the floor today?
Eh? Why's that?
It's a little bit easier on my back...
I can read with my back against the wall rather than bending over at my desk.
Ah, sorry, I didn't realize.
No worries.
I just have back pain fairly regularly, so I do my best to manage it.
Is that so?
I wonder why that is...
It's most likely because my--
Ah--
M-My...
Your posture, right?
Always hunched over like that while reading...
Yes!
I have terrible reading posture!
So that's why we should sit on the floor.
Fair enough.
I'll go ahead and get the book.
I retrieve the book from my bag.
Ah, I have some chocolate as well...
It's a bag of small chocolate candies.
I take it, since it'll go well with the tea.
Yuri and I then sit against the wall, teacups at our sides.
As if in sync, we assume the same reading position as last time, each holding one half of the book.
Except this time...
Our bodies are even closer to each other.
I can't see too well...
--!
Yuri slides closer until our shoulders are touching.
How am I supposed to focus on reading like this...?!
Yuri was always kind of cute, but...
When she's being less apprehensive, it's almost more than I can handle!
Your teacup...
Yuri hands me my teacup.
Holding it with my hand that's not holding the book, I end up in a position that makes it even harder to focus.
Because now I need to worry about making sure I don't accidentally touch her chest...!
Meanwhile, Yuri hasn't noticed a single thing.
She wears her intense reading expression, and I can only presume the world around her has faded away.
I use all of my willpower to focus on reading.
...
After a few minutes, I finally manage to relax a little.
I put the teacup between my legs and fumble with the chocolate wrapper.
Ah, sorry...
I briefly let go of the book to finish opening the wrapper.
You can have as much as you want.
Ah, that's...
That's okay, I won't take any...
Eh? Are you sure?
Well...
If I touch it, then it might get smudges on the pages...
Ah, you're right...
I didn't even think about that.
My bad...
No need to apologize.
I'll hold the book, okay?
Are you sure...?
Of course.
Yuri opens the book with both hands.
She holds it so that I don't have any harder of a time reading from it.
But as a result, her left arm is practically resting on top of my leg.
Well, in that case...
Yuri is already totally focused on reading again.
I take a chocolate candy and pop it into my mouth.
Then, I take another chocolate...
And I hold it up to Yuri.
She doesn't even look away from the book.
She simply parts her lips, as if this situation was completely natural.
But that means I can't stop here!
I apprehensively place the chocolate in her mouth.
Just like that, Yuri closes her lips over it.
Eh...?
Yuri's expression suddenly breaks.
Did...
Did I just...
Yuri looks at me like she needs to confirm what just happened.
U-Um...
[player]...
S-Sorry!
I guess I shouldn't have done that...
A-Ah...
Yuri starts to breathe heavily.
I...
I can't...
[player]...
Suddenly, Yuri forcefully grabs my arm and jerks me to my feet.
My teacup gets knocked over.
[player]...
My heart...
My heart won't stop pounding, [player]...
I can't calm down.
I can't focus on anything anymore...!
Can you feel it, [player]?
Yuri suddenly presses my hand against her chest.
Why is this happening to me?
I feel like I'm losing my mind...
I can't make it stop.
It even makes me not want to read...
I just want...
...to look...
...at you.
...Haah...
...Haah...
...Haah...
U-Um...
It's...time to share poems...
[gtext]{nw}
Um...
Wait...
How did I...
...Sorry, I just had a really weird dj vu...
This hasn't happened before or anything...right?
My head has been a little fuzzy lately...
I hope it hasn't really been showing or anything!
I would hate for you to think I'm weird just after we started spending time together...
I mean...
Everyone has a few unusual things about them.
But expressing those things so soon after meeting someone is usually seen as inappropriate...or unlikable.
At least, that's what I've discovered.
When I was a bit younger, I think I would come on really strongly and get a little too intense...
It made people not want to be around me.
So...I started hating those things about myself.
My obsession with certain hobbies.
And the way I can't control myself when I get too excited about something.
So...
I eventually stopped trying to talk to people.
If nobody could ever like me for the things that matter most to me...
...Then it's just easier if I close myself off.
But recently, something's been wrong.
I don't know what it is.
But every time we come to the club, my heart starts to go crazy.
Like it's going to rip out of my chest.
It overwhelms me with energy and emotions that I can't let out.
It's been making me do weird things.
I don't know why it's happening!
[player]...
Is it just me, or has Monika been acting a little off lately?
She's always been a sweetheart ever since I joined the club...
But recently, I've been feeling something sharp whenever she's around.
I'm not crazy, right?
Please tell me I'm not!
I couldn't say anything before, because she's always listening!
But finally, we're alone...
Can we just stay here for a while?
Yeah...
...
I just want to stay here.
Just the two of us.
We can stay here until the club ends.
And then we'll have the clubroom all to ourselves.
Nobody to interfere with our reading time.
Nobody to make me feel like stabbing myself in the throat.
Ahaha...
That was a joke!
Just a joke.
I do like knives, though...
It sounds strange, but you wouldn't understand if you've never seen how beautiful they can be.
I have an idea.
Why don't you come to my house sometime?
I can show you my collection.
I've gotten them all from various artisans.
I make sure to give them all their fair share of use.
I don't want them to get lonely or anything...
Nobody deserves to be lonely.
Nobody.
And that's why I'm so happy you joined the Literature Club, [player].
Now we don't need to be lonely anymore.
Because we have each other.
Every day.
That's all we need.
You know what?
Let's quit the Literature Club.
There's no need for us to be around Monika's slimy tongue anymore.
Not to mention that other pathetic child.
We can walk home together every day after school.
And read together.
Eat together.
Sleep together.
Doesn't that sound perfect?
It's everything we could ever want.
Isn't that why you joined the club in the first place?
It's almost like it was fate.
Fate that we would meet each other.
And now we get the happy ending that I've patiently waited years for.
Will you do that with me, [player]?
Will{space=60}[gtext]{nw}
I'm definitely most comfortable sharing it with Sayori first.
She's my good friend, after all.
I told Natsuki I was interested in her poems yesterday.
It's probably only fair if I shared mine with her first.
Yuri seems the most experienced, so I should start with her.
I can trust her opinion to be fair.
I should start with Monika.
Yesterday she seemed eager to read my poem, and I want her to know I'm putting in effort.
...
I...I'm sorry I have such terrible handwriting!
What??
I wasn't thinking that at all...
But it took you a long time to read...
Ah--
Well, I just don't read script very often...
I actually think your handwriting is pretty.
Eh?
That's...a relief...
Also, I liked the poem.
Even though it's short, it was really descriptive.
It wasn't too short?
I usually write longer poems...
Not at all.
I'm...really glad you like it.
I'll be honest...
Since it's our first time sharing, I wanted to write something a little more mild.
Something easy to digest, I suppose.
Are you into ghosts, Yuri?
Huhu.
Actually, the story isn't about a ghost at all, [player].
Really?
I must have totally missed the point...
Well, I suppose you did only glance over it, after all...
But remember that poets often express their own thoughts, feelings, and experiences in their work.
They usually do more than tell a simple story, or paint a picture.
In this case, perhaps the subject of the poem is only being symbolically compared to a ghost.
Lingering in her last remaining place of comfort, unable to let go of the past.
And soon to be left with nothing...
...That's a lot more solemn, putting it that way.
I hadn't even thought of that...
That's impressive.
Eh?
I-It's nothing, really!
Yours was impressive too, so...
Nah...
If anything, I could probably learn a thing or two from you.
...You think so?
Yeah, of course.
Ah...
You know...
I was really nervous about doing all this.
But in the end, I enjoyed it.
I'm going to keep doing my best for you, [player].
Ah...
Me too.
It's nothing, really...
Well...it makes me happy that you think that.
Just remember that it won't be long before you pick up on these things, too.
Yeah, maybe you're right.
I guess I'll have to keep trying.
I'm counting on you.
Um...
I was a little more daring with this one than yesterday's...
I can see that.
It's a lot more metaphorical...
I don't know if it's my fault, but I can't begin to imagine what this poem is about.
That's right.
It's a bit closer to my preferred writing style...
Using the poem as a canvas to express vivid imagery, and conveying emotions through them.
Yeah, if I take it at face value, then I can't even figure out what it's supposed to mean...
Well...
I think it's something that different people can relate to in their own way.
I wanted to express the way it feels for me to indulge in my more unusual hobbies...
It's those sorts of things I'm usually forced to keep to myself.
So, I sometimes enjoy writing about them.
Huh, that's funny...
...?
Didn't Natsuki also write something about that?
About someone being ridiculed for a strange interest?
Eh?
She...she did?
Yeah...
She was talking about how it doesn't matter what you're into as long as you're not hurting anybody.
She--She's right!
Ah--I mean...
Does she really feel that way...?
Yeah.
Sounds like you two have that in common...
That's...well, that's interesting...
To me, she seemed like the kind of person who would make fun of my hobbies...
But I suppose that's my fault for judging, isn't it...?
Ah-- Please don't tell her I said that!
Ahaha. Don't worry, I have no reason to.
Okay...
Well, thank you for sharing it with me.
Why do you keep them to yourself?
Be...Because...
They're embarrassing...
And people would make fun of me.
Don't you have anything like that, [player]?
Well...
Yeah, I guess I do...
I feel like everyone has a little something like that.
The best we can do is respect each other and our individualities.
Even if it's difficult sometimes, and some things make us uncomfortable...
After all, if I hadn't learned to embrace my own weirdness, I would probably hate myself.
I-I might be ranting a little bit now...
...But I'm glad that you're a good listener.
You're good at a lot of things...
Writing, listening...
There really aren't many people like you, [player]...
Th-That's exaggerating a little bit...
It's just...how I feel.
I never thought I would feel so comfortable sharing my writing...
But now, I almost feel like I look forward to it...
It's just...a really nice feeling.
And you're to thank for that.
It's...it's nothing, really...
Yuri smiles sincerely at me.
For just a moment, her timidness seems to disappear.
Um...
I'm aware that the beach is kind of an inane thing to write about.
But I did my best to take a metaphorical approach to it.
You say that like you didn't even want to write about it...
Oh, you haven't heard...?
After yesterday, Natsuki and I...well...
It was...amusing that we wrote about something similar in such different ways.
So, Natsuki wanted us to write about the same topic as each other again.
I see...
Something tells me the poem Natsuki showed me isn't the one she plans on sharing with everyone else...
Of course, I choose not to mention that to Yuri.
Yeah, Natsuki already told me about it.
S-She did...?
She didn't say anything weird, did she?
She just wanted us to write about the same topic again...
I suppose to better compare the differences in our writing styles...or thought processes.
Anyway, it was her idea...!
Knowing her, it's no surprise that she'd want to do something like that.
She probably just wants to show off.
It's not like I have a particular interest in her writing style...
I just went with her request.
But...
Well, I suppose it's not so bad to write about something simple on occasion.
It can be refreshing, you know?
It's good for me to calm my thoughts once in a while.
Yeah...I think I agree.
Thanks for sharing.
Finishing the poem, I start to hand it back to Yuri.
But instead of taking it from me, she looks away.
...
Do you...dislike it?
Ah--no, of course not.
I just...don't really know how I should respond.
Despite Yuri's poems usually being cryptic, it wasn't hard to figure out what this one was about.
Also, this clearly isn't the poem that Natsuki said she wrote about...
...Meaning I'm probably the only one she's showing this to.
I-I don't know if I'll be able to explain this one...
That's fine.
I understand this one.
...
Yuri is having an even harder time speaking than usual.
Does this one...mean a lot to you?
Yuri nods.
I'm not really good with words, but...
I'm happy that you shared it with me.
So, thank you.
And I hope we keep spending time together.
Despite my inability to make eye contact, I see a faint smile emerge on Yuri's lips.
I once again try to hand the poem back to her.
But instead, Yuri gently takes my hands and pushes them back toward me.
I hesitate in response to her warm touch.
You can...
Um...
The poem is...
Once again, Yuri fails to form a complete sentence.
You mean I can keep it?
Yuri nods.
I'd love to.
Again, Yuri faintly smiles, as if she doesn't want me to notice.
You always...
You always...make me feel nice.
I know I'm not good with people, but...
I hope that...I can return the favor sometimes.
Yeah.
Don't worry.
I think you do a good job.
Yuri finally turns back toward me.
I guess...we should move on before Monika says something.
But I'm sure we can talk again later...
Yeah.
I'm sure we will.
With that, Yuri timidly smiles at me, and I return to my seat so I can put her poem away.
Yeah...
I told you that you weren't gonna like it.
I like it.
What?
Just be honest!
I am.
Why are you so convinced that I wouldn't like it?
Well--
Because!
Everyone in high school thinks that writing has to be all sophisticated and stuff...
So people don't even take my writing seriously.
But isn't the point of poems for people to express themselves?
Your writing style wouldn't make your message any less valid.
Yes! Exactly!
I like when it's easy to read, but it hits you hard.
Like in this poem.
Seeing everyone around you do great things can be really disheartening...
So I decided to write about it.
Yeah, I understand.
But the other nice thing about simple writing is that it puts more weight on the wordplay.
Like I set up for a rhyme at the end, but then made it fall flat on purpose.
It helps bring out the feeling in the last line.
So you did...
I guess more went into it than I realized.
That's what it means to be a pro!
I'm glad you learned something.
Didn't expect that from the youngest one here, did you?
Yeah...guess not.
I decide to humor her with that last comment.
I don't really care how old everyone is, but if Natsuki is feeling proud then I won't take that away from her.
Not bad, right?
It's quite a bit longer than yesterday's.
Yesterday's was way too short...
I was just warming up!
I hope you didn't think that was the best I could do.
No, of course not...
Anyway, the message is pretty straightforward in this poem.
I doubt I have to explain it.
Sometimes you can explain complicated issues with much simpler analogies...
And it helps people realize how stupid they're being.
Like, anyone would agree that the subject of this poem is an ignorant jerk...
Do you know people like that?
Of course. It's about how everyone thinks my--
...That doesn't matter! It can be about anything!
I wrote it to be easy to relate to...
Everyone has some kind of weird hobby, or a guilty pleasure.
Something that you're afraid if people find out, they'd make fun of you or think less of you.
...But that just makes people stupid!
Who cares what someone likes, as long as they're not hurting anyone, and it makes them happy?
I think people really need to learn to respect others for liking weird things...
Huh, that's funny...
Yuri wrote about something similar today.
Huh?
Did you say Yuri?
Yeah...
She said her poem was about an unusual hobby of hers.
I didn't really get it, but she said something similar to you...
That people shouldn't make each other feel insecure about those things.
Really?
Well...
I mean, Yuri's pretty weird, so I wouldn't doubt that she has some weird hobbies...
...Not that there's anything wrong with that!
Uu...
It's not like...I would judge her or anything...
Natsuki has trouble finding words.
I-I guess I should try not to be so mean to her...
If she feels insecure about her weird behaviors and stuff...
I mean, I always hate people who make me feel insecure...
And Yuri made me feel insecure yesterday!
But the way you put it, it sounds like she's learned her lesson...
Well, I would say so.
Even if her writing style is really different, I'm sure she'll appreciate the message in your poem.
Well, you're definitely right.
At least, I can relate to that.
And I'm sure a lot of other people can, too.
You know...
I'm glad that you can appreciate this kind of writing...
I mean...I know I was talking about that yesterday.
But I've been...well, I've been enjoying sharing my writing with you, so...
...So consider yourself lucky, okay?
Ahaha.
Well, thanks for being honest.
What's that supposed to mean?
I'm always honest!
Jeez...
Just look forward to tomorrow too, okay?
Alright, I will.
It's what I do best, after all!
I don't like writing unless there's a good message to take away from it.
Like, conveying emotions is important...
But I want to make people think, not just feel.
Remember that!
I'm gonna write a good one for tomorrow, too, so look forward to it.
Yeah...
I felt like I kept writing about negative things, so I wanted to write something with a nice message for once.
Besides...the beach is awesome!
Kinda hard to write anything negative about the beach.
So you decided to write about the beach first, and then came up with the message later?
Yeah, well...
It's only because of what happened yesterday.
I mean, after Yuri and I realized we kind of wrote about the same thing...
She wanted to pick a topic and have us both write about it, or whatever.
I see...
Something tells me the poem Yuri showed me isn't the one she plans on sharing with everyone else...
Of course, I choose not to mention that to Natsuki.
Well, Yuri's take on it was a little more solemn.
Well, that's--
Jeez...she better not have said anything bad about mine!
After all, she was the one who wanted us to write about the same topic.
Ugh...you can really see her doing that, too.
Making us write about a simple topic, then trying to impress me by coming up with something all fancy.
Well, it's not like I care.
I just did it anyway.
I mean, I guess mine ended up being kind of metaphorical too...
...But there's nothing wrong with doing that once in a while!
At the very least, it was good practice.
...
...Why are you looking at me like that?
If you don't like it, then just say it.
I won't...get mad.
No, it's not that I don't like it...!
It was just...a little surprising to read.
This clearly isn't the poem that Yuri told me she had written...
...Meaning I'm probably the only one she's showing this to.
Er...I guess I'm not used to hearing such nice things coming from you...
D-Don't just say that!
Dummy...
What do you think...the point of writing is?
Expressing things that you can't just say...
Yeah...I understand.
I'm sorry for missing the point sometimes.
I always mean well...
And...I'm happy that you showed this to me.
I liked it.
Well...yeah...
I'm...I'm a pro, so...
Natsuki mumbles, completely failing to sound confident like she usually does.
Just...
Remember that...I can think these things sometimes, too!
You know, when you're nice to me, it's...
...
...Meaningful.
Ah...I'm glad.
Sensing Natsuki is satisfied, I start to hand the poem back to her.
But as I do so, Natsuki takes my hands and pushes them back away.
Her small, soft hands surprise me with their assertion.
I don't want it.
Eh...?
Why not?
I just don't!
Jeez...
I realize what Natsuki is doing.
Unable to be honest, she's trying to give me the poem in a roundabout way.
Well...in that case, I'm going to keep it.
Instead of teasing her, I choose to go along with it.
...Good.
If you didn't, I would...
...
Never mind...
Just...I'm glad that you want it.
Natsuki backpedals on her words and leaves it at that.
Despite her best efforts to hide her expression, I can see her faintly smiling to herself.
That's all for now, so...
Go put it away before someone sees it, okay?
Ah...yeah.
I'll go do that.
With that, I return to my seat so that I can put away Natsuki's poem.
Sayori...
This is just a guess, but...
Did you wait until this morning to write this?
No!
J-Just a little bit!
You can't answer 'just a little bit' to a yes or no question...
I forgot to do it last night...
Well, at least that makes me feel a little better about myself...
Don't be mean!
I still tried my best...
Ah, yeah...
I didn't mean to say that it was a bad poem.
It came out nice...or, how should I put it...
It sounds just like you.
Really?
Yeah.
Especially that last line...
I made eggs and toast!
Even though you were late to school...?
It's bad to skip breakfast!
I get all cranky...
Well, I guess there's no point in arguing...
Anyway, thanks for showing me.
Ehehe~
This was so much fun.
Monika's the best!
Ah...yeah.
But next time, I won't forget.
And I'm gonna write the best poem ever!
Well, I guess I look forward to it.
Holy crap...
Sayori, did you really write this?
Of course I did!
Didn't I tell you yesterday I was gonna write the best poem ever?
Yeah, but...
I mean, I didn't expect something like this, coming from you.
Monika taught me a whole lot!
And I've been really in touch with my feelings recently...
I see that...
It's almost kind of creepy.
Creepy...?
Well, not exactly...
Maybe because I'm so used to you being cheerful...
...Well, never mind.
I'm thinking too hard about it.
The point is, it came out good, so you should be proud of it.
Aw, thanks~
I feel like...
I feel like I was meant to express myself this way.
It even helps me understand my own feelings a little bit better...
Writing is like magic!
You've gotten pretty passionate about this, huh?
I hope you keep it up.
Yeah!
Writing's the best!
I'm gonna keep writing until I die!
Ahaha...don't get ahead of yourself.
Sayori's always had a habit of getting obsessed with something, before dropping it no more than a week later.
I wonder if this is one of those times?
But seeing the passion in her eyes makes it hard for me to be pessimistic.
So...what do you think?
Hmm...it's very...freeform, if that's what you call it.
Sorry, I'm not really the right person to ask for feedback...
Ahaha. It's okay.
Yeah, that kind of style has gotten pretty popular nowadays.
That is, a lot of poems have been putting emphasis on the timing between words and lines.
When performed out loud, it can be really powerful.
What was the inspiration behind this one?
Ah...
Well, I'm not sure if I know how to put it...
I guess you could say that I had some kind of epiphany recently.
It's been influencing my poems a bit.
An epiphany?
Yeah...something like that.
I'm kind of nervous to talk about deep stuff like that, because it's kind of coming on strongly...
Maybe after everyone is better friends with each other.
Anyway...
Here's Monika's Writing Tip of the Day!
Sometimes when you're writing a poem - or a story - your brain gets too fixated on a specific point...
If you try so hard to make it perfect, then you'll never make any progress.
Just force yourself to get something down on the paper, and tidy it up later!
Another way to think about it is this:
If you keep your pen in the same spot for too long, you'll just get a big dark puddle of ink.
So just move your hand, and go with the flow!
...That's my advice for today!
Thanks for listening~
Hm...
It's even more abstract than your last one, huh?
Ahaha...
I guess it's just the way I write...
I'm sorry if you don't like it.
No, I never said that.
It's just a kind of thing I've never really seen before, I guess.
I kind of like playing with my space on the paper...
Choosing where and how to space your words can totally change the mood of the poem.
It's almost like magic.
The way I wrote the lines really short makes it feel like they're trying to speak over the noise.
I see...
It's still hard for me to tell what it's about, though.
Ahaha.
Sometimes asking what a poem is about isn't the right question.
A poem can be as abstract as a physical expression of a feeling.
Or a conversation with the reader.
So putting it that way, not every poem is {i}about{/i} something.
Anyway...
Here's Monika's Writing Tip of the Day!
Sometimes you'll find yourself facing a difficult decision...
When that happens, don't forget to save your game!
You never know when you might change your mind...
...or when something unexpected may happen!
Wait...is this tip even about writing?
What am I even talking about?
Ahaha!
...That's my advice for today!
Thanks for listening~
You know...
I feel like learning and looking for answers are the sorts of things that give life meaning.
Not to get too philosophical or anything...
But it was kind of on my mind, so that's what I wrote about.
I see...
I never really put much thought into it.
In a way, it's almost paradoxical.
Because if we had all the answers, wouldn't the world start to lose its meaning?
You know, there's one thing I noticed...
It seems like everyone in the club prefers writing about things that are more sad than happy.
Ahaha. Are you surprised?
I mean, if everything was okay...
We wouldn't really have anything to write about, would we?
Humans aren't two-dimensional creatures.
I think you'd know that better than anyone.
You mean one-dimensional...?
Ah...yeah, that!
Anyway...
Here's Monika's Writing Tip of the Day!
Are you ever too shy to share your writing because you're afraid it's not that good?
It can be really disheartening to get a lukewarm response to something you put so much into.
But if you find other people who enjoy writing, then sharing becomes a lot easier!
Because instead of just telling you that your writing is good, or okay, or bad...
They'll want to focus more on everything that went into it, and the things you can work on.
It's much more encouraging that way, and it will make you want to continue improving.
It's almost like having your own little Literature Club, don't you think?
...That's my advice for today!
Thanks for listening~
...
...?
[player], if you're not going to take this club seriously then go home.
W-What??
Harsh...
What, you expect me to believe that you actually put effort into this?
Do you think I'm stupid?
I'm not a writer!
Maybe it's not very good, but yeah, I did put in effort.
We all start somewhere, right?
If you're still proud of the first poem {i}you{/i} ever wrote, then I'd like to read it.
!!
Painful to think about?
...
Fine.
Well, sorry.
You'll get better, anyway.
I'd tell you what to improve, but you're better off just trying again.
Fair enough...
Well, to each their own, I guess.
Anyway, I guess I gotta share mine now...
Knowing you, you'll probably think it's stupid.
...
...?
...Well, it's about what I expected from someone like you.
That's a little blunt...
Well, excuse me.
It's not like I said it was bad.
It just didn't evoke any emotions.
So basically, it's not cute enough for your tastes?
Do you want to get smacked?
I'll pass...
Sigh...
Well anyway, I guess I need to show you mine.
Not that you'll like it.
...
...?
...Okay, well let's start with the things I don't like!
First of all, um...
...
Natsuki re-reads my poem.
N-Never mind. I don't feel like giving you my opinion.
Eh? Then what's the point of sharing in the first place?
I wrote this when I could have been doing other things.
Uu...
In fact, remember how I said I wanted to read your poems?
That's what I had in mind when writing this.
I want to help you feel comfortable enough to share yours.
Like Monika said.
Uuuu...!
Well I would be more comfortable sharing my poem if yours was really bad!
You were supposed to show me some dumb poem and make me go 'Hah, well it's not that great but let me show you what real literature looks like!'
And you went and ruined it!
I hope you're happy!
...
...So, in other words, you're saying you liked it?
Urk--
Natsuki's retort gets caught in her throat.
Uuuuuuuuu...You're so...!
You just...you...don't understand anything, do you?
I already told you that, you don't have to go announcing it to the world like you're all self-important!
Pretty sure you never actually said that...
I say that mostly to myself.
Natsuki must really hate me or something.
I can't figure out if it's a win or a loss that she liked my poem.
In any case... You still need to show me yours, right?
Gr... Fine, I guess.
Only because Monika will make me if I don't.
...Hm.
Well, I can admit that it's better than the last one.
It's nice to see that you're putting in some effort.
That's good...
But I still don't like this at all.
It's trying too hard to be serious.
Eh? What do you mean by that?
Poems don't need to be all deep-sounding to express something.
It's going to just sound like you're forcing it unless you really don't suck at it.
Honestly... Don't bother trying to write poems like this until you're on Yuri's level--
Natsuki stops short all of a sudden.
D-Don't...tell me...
Eh?
You're not...you're not just trying to impress Yuri, are you?!
W-What are you talking about?? And keep your voice down...!
You know Yuri would love this kind of...this angsty.......!!
Just because she's a talented writer doesn't mean...I-I mean...
Uu....!!
Looks like I'm in trouble.
I somehow struck a nerve, though what I did is beyond me.
I am so done with you.
Natsuki shoves the poem I handed her back over to me.
Take your stupid poem. If you wrote it for someone else, just don't show it to me!
Ouch...
This is what I get for letting a younger girl step into my business.
Unless I was a mind reader, I was destined to be in a world of pain from the start.
At least Natsuki wasn't really the girl I was trying to impress in the first place...
...Hm.
I liked your last one better.
Eh? Really?
Well yeah. I can tell you were a little more daring with this one.
But you're really not good enough for that yet. It fell flat.
That may be true, but I just wanted to try something different.
I'm still figuring this all out.
I mean, I always like poems that aren't trying too hard.
I hate when people try to sound fancy or add more meaning just by using annoying and complicated language.
Just make it simple, cute, and to the point!
Yuri's head over heels for all this cryptic nonsense, but I see right through that BS. Hah!
Making your reader look so hard for all this deep meaning is just an excuse to have no meaning at all.
I guess that's one way to look at it.
Well, everyone has their own opinion.
But my opinion is the best opinion. I'm sure you've figured that out already.
Er...
Anyway, here's my poem. Maybe you'll learn something.
...Hm.
Well, I can admit that it's better than the last one.
It's nice to see that you're putting in some effort.
That's good...
Come to think of it, this kind of reminds me of Sayori's poem from yesterday...
Eh? You think so?
Yeah. Well I guess if you've been friends with her for so long, you might be on the same wavelength.
But you never really struck me as her type.
Sayori has a 'type' all of a sudden...?
Well, I don't know! But honestly, how can someone so...er, fluffy...spend so much time with someone like you?
It's like she's dragging around a dead weight.
Uug... That was a little unnecessary...
But think of it this way. If it weren't for me, she would probably just fly away like letting go of a balloon.
You could say we each take care of each other in our own way.
Whatever it is, I don't get it...
...Oh, yeah, I guess I'm supposed to show you my poem.
Here.
...Hm.
Well, it's not really any worse than your last one.
But I can't really say it's any better, either.
Phew...
Huh? 'Phew' what?
Ah... Well anything that isn't a trainwreck, I'll take as a win.
And I get the feeling you're probably the most critical.
H-Hey! What makes you--
{i}(Wait, maybe that was a compliment...?){/i}
A-Ahah! Glad to see someone recognizes my experience!
Well then, keep practicing and maybe you'll be as good as me someday!
That's...uh...
Something tells me Natsuki completely missed the point.
...Hm.
Well, it's not terrible.
But it's pretty disappointing after your last one.
Then again, if this one was as good as your last one, I would be completely pissed.
Well, I guess I wanted to try something a little different this time.
Fair enough. You're still new to this, so I wouldn't expect you to find your style right away.
...
Natsuki reads my poem.
She keeps glancing at me, then back at the poem.
By now, she must have read it more than once.
...Aren't you supposed to be bad at this?
...Is that a compliment?
N-No! I mean... You know...
Natsuki struggles to find the words she wants.
I just...expected a lot less after what you showed me yesterday.
That's all.
Well, I guess I just got lucky with this one.
Y-Yeah!! Exactly!
You just got lucky, you know?
Don't get used to it.
You won't always manage to write poems this cute. I mean--!
I mean well-written! No, I mean--
Ah, so that's how it is. My poem is cute?
No! Why are you smiling?! It's not like I like cute things!
Natsuki shoves my poem back towards me.
H-Huh! Reading it again, I decided that it's not so great after all.
It's too cute and doki-doki.
It would only impress...you know, girls...who like those kinds of things.
Ahaha!
For some reason, Natsuki is incredibly easy to see through.
Well, anyway...!
You're gonna read mine now, right?
Judging by your tastes, you'll probably like it a lot.
You'll probably learn something, too. Don't forget who the {i}real{/i} pro is.
...
Natsuki reads my poem.
She keeps glancing at me, then back at the poem.
By now, she must have read it more than once.
Rrgh...
...?
Is it that bad?
No! No, it's not!
It's good. It's really good, okay?!
There, I said it!
Ugh, this wasn't supposed to happen at all...!
Why can't you just be bad at this?
My poems are supposed to impress {i}you{/i}, not the other way around!
You're trying to impress me?
Obviously! You think I'd let you enjoy Yuri's writing more than mine?
Give me a break.
Well...
In that case, what's the problem with me trying to impress you?
I'll tell you! You--
--
Natsuki's face freezes, like she just realized something.
Y-Y-You...
You're trying to...impress {i}me?{/i}
Natsuki vigorously scans her eyes over my poem one more time.
Then, the poem slips out of her hands and flutters to the floor.
I...have to use the bathroom!
Red-faced, Natsuki quickly walks out of the room.
Hey, [player]...
Did you do something to Natsuki?
I just saw her rush out like that...
You didn't do anything terrible, did you?
N-No!
I just told her that--
My voice gets caught in my throat.
There's no way I could tell Monika that I'm trying to impress Natsuki.
Hmm?
Monika sees the poem lying on the floor and swiftly picks it up.
She skims over it a second time, her smile not fading from her face.
I see.
At first I just thought you liked her writing style...
But you wrote this {i}for{/i} Natsuki, didn't you?
She reads through it, her smile not fading from her face.
I see.
You wrote this for Natsuki, didn't you?
I-I mean...
Not really...
In fact, didn't she like your poem a lot the other day, too?
I'm surprised you know her taste so well already.
Are you sure you're not cheating, [player]?
Cheating...?
What do you mean by that?
Never mind, I'm just kidding. Ahaha!
I didn't understand Monika's joke at all.
Anyway...
How do you think Natsuki feels about you?
Oh, you don't need to answer that.
It was just something for you to think about.
Hey!
Natsuki comes up and snatches the poem out of Monika's hands.
Neither of us had noticed her reenter the classroom.
Did you read this, Monika?
Of course! I liked it!
Ugh...
You should really stop reading things that aren't for you, you know.
You have a bad habit of doing that.
Eh?
But [player] wrote this poem.
And we're supposed to share with everyone, right?
Uu--
Natsuki freezes.
She apparently forgot that my poem is technically for everyone to read.
Okay, well, I think [player] is done sharing this poem with everyone.
It's not like anyone would want to read this anyway.
In fact, I'm just going to hold onto this.
If you insist~
What?
Why are you looking at me like that??
Like what?
Ugh...
Never mind.
Well, I guess Natsuki has my poem now.
Not that I really planned on keeping it.
Ah, Natsuki...
I'll give you the poem, but that's still not very fair to [unfairto]...
...She hasn't gotten to read it yet.
So what?
Well... I guess [player] is right, Natsuki...
It's not fair if you don't let everyone finish reading it.
...
...Fine.
Natsuki returns my poem.
It's not like she's going to like it, though.
Anyway, read my poem now.
And no, I won't let you keep it.
This is my only copy.
Yeah, no thanks.
Eh? You didn't even--
{i}Next!{/i}
...
...Meh.
I guess you really haven't learned anything after all.
Honestly, I don't know why I got my hopes up in the first place.
What? I didn't think this one was that bad...
What did I do wrong?
...
Oh, man.
This is seriously a step backwards.
Eh?
I liked your last two way better than this one.
I mean...
I guess I can't be mad at you for trying different things.
As long as you're not just trying to impress Yuri or something like that.
Gross.
Okay, okay.
Like you said, I'm allowed to try new things.
Why are you so emotionally invested in my poems, anyway?
Isn't that more of a compliment to me?
...Eh?
N-No! Gross!
It's not like I care!
It's just that {i}one{/i} of us in this club has to make sure you're not slacking off.
Really?
Well, what if you ended up just scaring me away?
That's--um...
...It's not like you would actually do that.
Yeah, you're right.
It's kind of fun to hang out here, even if I have to put up with you.
{i}Guh--!!{/i}
Natsuki's elbow connects with my stomach.
Oh?
Maybe I won't mind scaring you away after all.
I was......just joking....
Oh, I know!
Don't worry, I was too.
Ahahaha!
...
How the hell do you call that a joke?
That seriously hurt.
Well, maybe it was funny to her...
...I guess that's kind of the point.
I should really just watch my mouth around Natsuki.
Anyway...
Natsuki holds her poem out to me like nothing even happened.
...
...This one's alright.
Alright?
Well, yeah.
It doesn't blow me away.
But there's nothing I really hate about it.
It's just not really my style. I mean, that's fine.
...
...This one's alright.
Alright?
Well, yeah.
About as good as yesterday's, anyway.
I see what you're going for, but it's just not really my style.
I mean, that's fine.
I'm mostly just glad that you're trying a little bit.
Well, of course I'm at least trying.
Let's see, let's see!
You're certainly enthusiastic today.
Of course.
You know I like your writing.
I'm just surprised.
It seemed like you had a lot of trouble admitting that before.
Well... Well, of course!
I just had to put you in your place a little bit!
It's not like...
I mean, it's not like I was shy or anything stupid like that.
Or jealous!
I really wasn't jealous.
Just because you happen to be a good writer?
That's such a dumb thing to get jealous about.
Ahaha!
Natsuki...
What??
You're not very confident about your writing, are you?
...Eh?
W-What are you talking about?
My writing is obviously the best...
...Right?
...
It took me a while to figure out, but I think I finally did.
Maybe Natsuki acts so arrogant because she's trying to make up for her own insecurities.
If she acts like she's the best, then other people might think that way, too.
Right...?
[player]...
Please just tell me you like my poems.
I don't care if you hate them.
Just please tell me I'm the best.
I just...
I just really need to hear that from someone.
I know I sound stupid.
But there's a reason I never shared my poems before this.
Natsuki...
Because...
Because nobody ever takes me seriously!
What's the point in sharing my poems if people just laugh and say "That's so cute, just like you, Natsuki!"
Sometimes I don't want to be cute!
But nobody understands that!
I try really hard when I write.
The style doesn't matter.
The emotions are there.
Why can't anyone {i}see{/i} that...?
I just want...
Natsuki trails off.
Maybe it's because her lip started to quiver.
I look down.
Her fists are clenched really tightly.
Hey, Natsuki.
If you're not careful, you'll rip your own poem.
I gently grab the poem with my own hand until she relaxes her grip on it.
I place it flat on the desk and smooth out the wrinkles that she put into it.
D-Don't read it!
Before I can pick it back up, Natsuki snatches the poem up from the desk.
It's not any good.
And I know you hate my poems.
So you don't have to read this one, okay?
But I want to read it.
W-Why?
Because.
I like your poems.
I really do.
Why would I judge you for your style?
It's not like my own style is anything crazy.
I mean, it's true that the first time I read one of your poems, I didn't look much into it.
But I know you better now.
And it's wrong for Yuri to think your style is more amateur than hers.
And Sayori... She always means well...
But sometimes she's so focused on simple happiness that she doesn't understand what people really want.
Yeah... I guess I never really thought about how hard it is for you.
And I'm sorry if I was part of that problem.
I understand now.
You're not just cute, you're a lot more than that.
Ah-- Natsuki, you're doing it again--
Once again, Natsuki clutches her poem a little too hard.
She looks down, hiding her eyes from me.
I never realized how difficult this was for her.
But finally, she forces herself to extend her arms and set her poem on the table.
You can...read it.
Just turn that way.
I don't want you to...look at my face right now.
Okay, I will.
...
...Finally!
Eh?
This one. It's good!
I was wondering how long it would take you.
All right!
Yeah, seriously.
Don't listen to what anyone else says.
Especially Yuri.
Just keep writing poems like this. That's all you need!
Er...
Are you sure that's not just what {i}you{/i} want?
Excuse me?
You're talking to a pro, you know.
Don't you think you should trust my opinion the most?
I guess that depends.
Aren't you biased towards poems that are more simple and cute?
Biased?
Of course not.
My opinion just happens to be the best.
...
There's one thing I still can't tell.
Is Natsuki actually self-aware of her spoiled behavior?
At this rate, I don't know if I'll ever figure it out.
...Fair enough.
I'm glad that you like my poem, after all.
Ahaha!
I knew you'd finally understand.
Just keep showing me your poems and you'll be a pro before you know it.
Anyway, here's the one I wrote.
...
...Wow!
[player]...
Your poem is really bad!
Ahahaha!
Eh?!
It's fine, it's fine~
It's your first time.
Besides...
I'm really happy just that you wrote one.
It just reminds me of how you're really a part of the club now~
(Not to mention the fact that I'm standing in front of you in the clubroom...?)
Er...well, of course.
I'm not really into it yet, but that doesn't mean I'll break my promise.
See?
It's like I said before, [player]...
Deep down, you're not selfish at all, you know?
Trying new things like this for other people...
That's something that only really good people do!
Thanks...Sayori.
...I'm not sure if Sayori sees the full picture of my motive here.
Then again...
I can't deny that she's part of the reason I joined.
Knowing how much this means to her and all...
Yeah.
And I'm gonna make sure you have lots of fun here, okay?
That will be my way of thanking you~
Alright, I'm going to hold you to that, then.
Yay~!
Now, you'll read my poem too, right?
Don't worry, I'm really bad at this.
Ehehe...
We'll see about that.
...
This is a good poem, [player]!
Are you sure it's your first time?
Of course...
It's not that good.
Am I the kind of guy who would be writing poems in his spare time?
Ehehe, I guess you're right~
But that's why it impressed me!
Well, to be honest...
I was afraid that you wouldn't do it seriously...
Or that you wouldn't write one at all.
...
...Oh my goodness!
This is sooooo good, [player]!
Eh?
I love it~!
I had no idea you were such a good writer!
Sayori...
You must be seriously overreacting.
I'm not a good writer at all.
I honestly have no idea what I'm doing.
Well...
Maybe that's why!
Because I have no idea what I like, either!
Ahahaha!
Jeez...
Yuri's opinion was way more constructive than this...
I'm sure Yuri's opinion has to be a little more constructive than this.
Maybe even Natsuki's.
Are you sure you don't like it just because I wrote it?
Eh?
Well, I'm sure that's part of it.
I think I understand you better than a lot of other people, you know?
So when I read your poem...
It's not just a poem...
It's a [player] poem!
And that makes it feel extra special!
Like I can feel your feelings in it~
Sayori hugs the sheet against her chest.
You're so weird, Sayori...
Ehehe...
...
Ehehe, I love reading your poems~
It's like I never know what I'm going to get!
So basically you're saying it sucks.
No! Not at all!
...Maybe!
Just a little?
Yuri must have spoiled me a little bit with her poems...
Ehehe...
It's fine, it's fine.
After all, I still have no idea what kinds of writing you even like.
Yeah!
Me neither!
Ugh...
Why don't you at least try giving it some thought?
Aww, you want to write something for me?
That's so sweet~
Yeah, right.
But you're always thinking about other people.
You need to think about yourself once in a while.
If you don't, you might end up getting hurt at some point.
Ehh?
Well...
I don't really know what you mean, but I'll try to keep it in mind!
Well, whatever...
Anyway, let's see...
Hmm...
I guess I like...happy poems~
Wait, sometimes I like sad poems too...
Sometimes a little bit of both...
There's a word for that, right...?
What's the word I'm looking for...
...Bittersweet!
Yeah!
I like things that are happy and things that are sad.
Happy and sad?
I can't see you liking something sad, Sayori...
Well...
I like happy the most!
But sometimes when you have a little raincloud in your head...
A sad poem can help give the raincloud a little hug...
...And make a nice happy rainbow!
...Sayori, that's unexpectedly poetic.
Eh? It is?
Maybe I'm getting better at expressing my feelings after all!
Thanks, [player]!
I should go write that down, then~
You can read my poem now, okay?
...
Ooh!
I like this one, [player]!
It has some nice feelings in it~
Ah, I'm glad.
So it's at least better than yesterday's.
Uh-huh!
Maybe I'm getting better at this, then.
Well, I'm not very good at figuring out if poems are good or bad...
But that's why I just go by my heart~
If it makes me feel things, then it must be a good poem!
I'm not sure that's exactly how it works...
...Then again, I guess conveying feelings is a pretty important part of this whole thing.
Yeah, maybe...
Honestly, I don't even know what kind of writing you like in the first place.
...
Ooh!
I like this one, [player]!
It has some nice feelings in it~
Ah, I'm glad.
Does that mean it's better than yesterday's?
Mmm, lemme think...
I dunno!
I guess I like them both!
Ehehe~
That's not very helpful, you know...
...
Ooh!
I like this one, [player]!
It has some nice feelings in it~
Ah, I'm glad.
Still, though...
Your tone makes it sound like you liked yesterday's poem better.
Ehehe, I guess you caught me...
Sometimes you know me a little too well for my own good!
Well, don't just try to be nice about it.
If I'm doing a bad job then I'd rather just hear it.
No, no!
I still liked this one! I promise!
You know I wouldn't lie to you, [player]...!
Never ever!
Yeah, I guess so...
What made yesterday's poem so great compared to this one, then?
Umm.....
...
...Oh my goodness!
This is sooooo good, [player]!
Eh?
I love it~!
Especially after yesterday's poem!
Ugh...
You're too honest sometimes, Sayori.
No, but really!!
I wanna put this on my wall~
Can I?
Sayori...
You must be seriously overreacting.
I'm not a good writer at all.
I honestly have no idea what I'm doing.
Well...
Maybe that's why!
Because I have no idea what I like, either!
Ahahaha!
Jeez...
I'm sure Yuri's opinion has to be a little more constructive than this.
Maybe even Natsuki's.
Are you sure you don't like it just because I wrote it?
Eh?
Well, I'm sure that's part of it.
I think I understand you better than a lot of other people, you know?
So when I read your poem...
It's not just a poem...
It's a [player] poem!
And that makes it feel extra special!
Like I can feel your feelings in it~
Sayori hugs the sheet against her chest.
You're so weird, Sayori...
Ehehe...
...
[player]...
I really love your poems.
I can't believe you've been hiding these from me!
Eh? I'm not hiding anything!
But...
Your poems are sooo good...
Yesterday's, and this one too!
You can't tell me you haven't done this before!
I mean...
You're really the only one who feels that way, so...
Eh?!
No way!!
Not even Natsuki...?
Well, I guess Natsuki is the least likely to admit how much she likes something...
But I don't think it's that.
What do you mean?
Well...
I guess I'll be honest about it.
It's a lot easier to write poems when I'm thinking about you.
E-Eh?!
Wawawa--!
Stop thinking weird things, idiot!
I just mean that you're a really...expressive person, I guess.
How am I supposed to write poems about my own stupid life?
But you somehow make everything in your life an adventure.
Even the little things.
Like cooking!!
Let's not talk about that!
Ehehe...
So, yeah...
I guess what I'm saying is that I can feel more feelings through you than I can through myself.
We have that kind of weird connection.
It's your fault for getting in my business all the time.
Ehh...?
I don't know if I understand...
Sigh...
You never understand when I try to explain things to you, do you, Sayori?
I pat Sayori's head.
Ahaha! Heyyy!
I'm not a kid, you know!
Are you sure about that?
Mmmm, maybe~
Sayori starts fiddling with her pencil between her hands.
Hey, [player]...
Will you give me your poem?
I kinda want to keep it.
Huh? Why?
Because...
Well...
It's the first time you've written something for me...
Ehehe...
!!
Sayori, you completely misunderstood!
I didn't write this for you!
Ehehehehe...
Sigh...
Are you even listening anymore?
Well, whatever.
I'll give it to you when we go home.
Really?!
{i}Snap!{/i}
A-Ah!!
I broke my pencil...
Sayori hastily bends down to pick up the piece she dropped.
But being inattentive of her surroundings, she bumps right into me.
S-S-Sorry--!!
It's fine, it's fine.
I'll get it for you.
I bend down and pick up the broken pencil.
Sayori clutches the desk beside her to support herself, knees shaking.
I-I'm a little clumsy today...
Ahahaha...
Let's sit down, Sayori...
Y-Yeah...
I grab Sayori's arm and help her sit at the desk.
Anyway, I still haven't read your poem...
Oh!
Sorry, I forgot about that~
But it's not as good as yours!!
Jeez, don't worry.
I'm sure I'll like it.
...
...Hm.
It's nice, I guess~
Come on, I can already tell you don't like it.
Well...
You don't need to worry about what I think.
After all, you wrote this for someone else, didn't you?
Probably [currentname]...
Eh??
I didn't write this for anyone specifically!
Maybe...
That's not really what I meant, though.
But it's okay.
You're making new friends, just like I was hoping.
That makes me...really happy.
And you're happy too, right?
In this club?
Well...
Of course I am.
Good~
That's all that matters to me.
Thank you, [player].
Sayori...
Is there something wrong?
Huh?
No, nothing.
I'm just a little tired today.
Ehehe.
Alright...
Just tell me if you need anything.
I will.
Don't worry about me, okay?
You can go play with everyone else now.
If you insist...
Yaay~
I'm gonna go home a little bit early today.
Sayori...?
Tell Monika I wasn't feeling well, okay?
I'll see you tomorrow~
Before I can say anything else, Sayori cheerfully walks out of the classroom, humming to herself.
...
This is your best one so far.
It's really really nice, [player]~
Er-- Thanks.
Mhm~
...
Sayori, you've been a little quiet today.
Is everything alright?
E-Eh??
Of course!
Everything is fine~
Maybe I'm just a little tired today.
Ehehe.
Do you want to nap or something?
No, that's silly!
Don't worry about me, okay?
I only want to see smiles on your face~
Well, alright...
Hey, [player]...
I'm still a little surprised.
I really thought that you would try writing your poems like the way Yuri does...
Or even Natsuki...
But in the end...
...Yeah.
I guess you're the one who likes this one the most.
...Why?
You don't want to get closer with everyone else?
Wait!
Of course I do!
But that doesn't mean I need to try so hard to impress them.
I still understand you the most, Sayori.
I know you have to sometimes put up with me.
And I have to sometimes put up with you.
But we have...a wavelength or something.
And this is how the poem came out.
Sometimes it feels like you're the only exciting thing in my life.
So sometimes it's just easier to write when thinking about you.
...Sayori?
N-No...
[player]...
I don't...deserve this...
You're too nice to me...
Why are you doing this...?
Sayori has trouble keeping her voice steady, all of a sudden.
If you had fun with everyone else instead...
This would be...so much easier!
Sayori...!
I glance around the room to make sure nobody has noticed this.
Sayori.
I've probably never said this before, but I don't understand what you're feeling right now.
Tell me what will cheer you up.
Sayori shakes her head.
She sniffles and keeps shaking her head.
Finally, she gathers herself and puts on a smile.
It's nothing, [player].
It's just a little raincloud.
I'm sorry you had to see that. Ahahaha!
I promise it won't happen again.
Just smiles from everyone, okay?
That's all that matters.
Go play with everyone else.
I'm gonna go home a little bit early today~
Sayori--
Tell Monika I wasn't feeling well, okay?
I'll see you tomorrow~
Before I can say anything else, Sayori cheerfully walks out of the classroom, humming to herself.
...
Mm...
...
Yuri stares at the poem.
A minute passes, more than enough time for her to finish reading.
Um...
Oh!
S-Sorry...!
I forgot to start speaking...
U-Um!
It's fine, don't force yourself.
I'm not...
I just need to put my thoughts into words.
Hold on...
...Okay.
This is your first time writing a poem, right?
Er, yeah...
Why do you ask?
I'm just making sure.
I guessed that it might be after reading through it.
Ah, so it's that bad.
No!!
...Did I just raise my voice...?
Uu, I'm so sorry...
Yuri buries her face in her hands.
I couldn't help but notice that it's been several minutes and we really haven't gotten anywhere.
It might take Yuri a while to get used to new people...
It's fine, I really didn't notice.
What were you saying?
Right...um...
It's just that there are specific writing habits that are usually typical of new writers.
And having been through that myself, I kind of learned to pick up on them.
I think the most noticeable thing I recognize in new writers is that they try to make their style very deliberate.
In other words, they tend to pick a writing style separate from the topic matter, and they form-fit the two together.
The end result is that both the style and the expressiveness are weakened.
Once Yuri finds her train of thought, it's as if her demeanor totally changes.
Her stammering is completely gone, and she sounds like an expert.
Of course, that's not something you can be blamed for.
There are so many different skills and techniques that go into writing even a simple poem.
Not just finding them and building them, but getting them to work together is probably the most challenging part.
It might take you some time, but it all comes with practice, and learning by example, and trying new things.
I also hope that everyone else in the club gives you valuable feedback.
Natsuki can be a little bit biased, though...
Biased? How?
U-Um...
Well...
Never mind...
I shouldn't be talking about people like that...
Sorry...
It's fine.
I'm not sure if Yuri is apologizing to herself, to me, or to Natsuki.
Do you mind if I read your poem now?
Please do!
I'd love to share my thought process behind it...
Yuri smiles dreamily, as if that's a rare opportunity for her.
Which itself is kind of funny...
...After all, isn't this supposed to be a literature club?
...
As Yuri reads the poem, I notice her eyes lighten.
...Exceptional.
Eh? What was that?
...?
D-Did I say that out loud...?
Yuri first covers her mouth, but then ends up covering her whole face.
I...!
Uu...
{i}(He's going to hate me...){/i}
Um...
You really didn't do anything wrong, Yuri...
Eh...?
That's...
I-I guess you're right...
What am I getting so nervous for?
A-Ahaha...
Yuri takes a breath.
So...
What kind of writing experience do you have?
Your use of imagery and metaphors indicates you've written a lot of poetry before.
Really...?
Wow, that's a huge compliment coming from you.
This is actually my first time, really.
Huh...?
Yuri stares at me blankly, then looks at my poem again.
...
...Well, I know that!
I just meant...u-um...
Yuri trails off, unable to find an excuse.
She traces her finger along the words in the poem, as if breaking it down more thoroughly.
...Yeah.
Okay.
This is the reason I was able to tell.
...
Um...
...Are you still mad at me?
Eh?!
For disrespecting Natsuki yesterday...
Because reading this poem...
Now I know why you got mad at me.
Because you...
You prefer her writing over mine!
That's not really true...!
Meaning when I disrespected her...
I disrespected you too...didn't I?
Oh no...
Yuri...
You might be reading into this a little too much...
How could I be so stupid...?
I always let these things happen...
Whenever I think before I speak, I just come off as awkward and unlikable.
But if I speak without thinking, the things I want to keep inside come out and make people hate me.
So...please don't force yourself to be around me.
I know this is what Monika wants.
But it's not fair to you when you could be enjoying your time with Natsuki and Sayori.
Yuri--
Please...
It makes it easier for me if you don't express any concern.
Besides...
I have my books with me.
That's...all I need.
...
Yuri smiles sadly and puts her head down on her desk.
I'm frustrated.
I don't hate her, but it's as if she's not capable of listening to me over her own thoughts.
I sigh to myself.
All I can do is accept that that's how she is.
If she wants to be left alone, then I have no choice but to abide to that request.
Ah, is it my turn?
Let's see how it compares to yesterday's...
Mm...
I see...
It's a bit different.
I respect you for trying different things, [player].
Were you inspired by Natsuki's poem?
Or Sayori's, perhaps?
Well...
I guess you could say that...
I thought so.
I'm happy for you.
You don't need to find inspiration in my poems.
I write them for myself...
...Not for anyone else.
So I don't really...need for people to like them or anything.
Yuri!
E-Eh?
I'm sorry for being blunt, but you're overthinking this a little.
Just because our styles are different doesn't mean I dislike your poems...
In fact, if I tried to do something in your style, I would probably just do a terrible job.
I...I see...
I'm sorry...
My stupid mind...it likes to do that sometimes.
Anyway...
You don't need to be afraid to be a little more daring...
Metaphors can go a long way.
Don't feel like you need to work your brain like turning a bunch of gears.
Try letting your mind wander through your feelings...
And write down the things you see and hear.
That's one way to truly enable your reader to see into your mind.
It's a very intimate exercise...
I see.
That's a certainly interesting technique.
Thanks for sharing.
I have, um...
...Well, an example of that, if you'd like to read it...
Of course.
Is this the poem you wrote for today?
Yuri nods, and timidly hands me her poem.
Let's see what you've written for today.
...
Mm...
Well done, [player].
Your skills are already improving.
Really?
Thanks, Yuri.
Coming from you, that means a lot.
Eh?
I-It's nothing!
I'm just happy to help inspire fellow writers...
I know you're new to this, so don't worry so much if it seems like you can't get your poem to feel perfect.
Let's see what you've written for today.
...
Mm...
This is pretty good, [player].
Were you influenced by seeing everyone's writing styles yesterday?
I guess you could say that...
I was also a bit surprised by how differently everyone writes.
So I respect you for trying new things.
Let's see what you've written for today.
...
......
Yuri stares at the poem with a surprised expression on her face.
Do you...like it?
[player]...
...How did you pick up on this so quickly?
Just yesterday, I was telling you the kind of techniques worth practicing...
Maybe that's why...
You did a good job explaining.
I really wanted to try giving it more imagery.
Yuri visibly swallows.
Even her hands appear sweaty.
I'm not...used to this...
Used to what?
I don't know...!
It's fine, take your time...
Yuri breathes and collects her thoughts.
I know that Yuri likes to think before she speaks, so I offer that patience to her.
Yeah...
Just...being appreciated like this...I guess.
It probably sounds really stupid...
But seeing someone motivated by my writing...
It just makes me...
Really happy...
Are you saying you've never shared your writing before?
Yuri nods.
Really? I don't believe it.
I really only write for myself...
And besides...
...People would just laugh at me!
Do you really think that...?
Again, Yuri nods.
Huh...
Even your close friends?
...
Yuri doesn't respond to that.
I wonder why...
Anyway...
Do you want to share the poem you wrote today?
...Yeah.
I do!
If it's with you...
Let's see what you've written for today.
...
......
Yuri stares at the poem with a surprised expression on her face.
Do you...like it?
[player]...
This one might even be better than yesterday's...
...How did you even pick up on this so quickly?
...
Yuri doesn't look too enthusiastic about spending time with me...
I guess if she changes her mind, she'll come to me.
But I should leave her be for now.
...
...I see.
I think you're improving at writing in general, [player].
But I can't help but feel a little bit foolish.
Eh? What for?
Just...
I feel like I kept trying to offer advice...
When it should have been clear to me that you prefer a different writing style.
I probably just sounded arrogant!
I'm so stupid...
Yuri, that's a little--
No...
You don't understand.
I spent so much time worrying about what's better and what's worse.
Not just with you...
With Natsuki, and Sayori...
It's obvious now why nobody has fun when talking to me...
And because of that...
...I'll just keep my mouth shut about your poem!
...
Yuri buries her head into her arms on her desk.
That's not the first time I've seen her do that.
I don't think it's ever as bad as you make it sound in your head...
...
I think if people really didn't like talking to you...
Then it would be a lot more obvious.
I know that you like to read deeply into things.
But some things are just worth taking at face value.
I just...
I've gotten so used to it...
...That it's hard for me to comprehend any other possibility.
Gotten used to what?
Reading deeply into things?
Being disliked.
Yuri...
What...what am I saying?
I'm sorry...
I never meant to bring this up...
Yuri turns away from me.
You should go...
Eh...?
Please...
Please don't look at me right now.
I want to do some thinking...
Are you sure...?
Yuri nods.
Alright...
I leave Yuri be.
Comforting or reassuring her is nearly impossible as it is.
So when she wants to be alone, I think anything I say could only make things worse.
I feel bad, but thankfully she doesn't take it out on me...
I'll wait until she's feeling a little bit better.
...
...Ah.
Decided to try something different today?
I guess so.
Is that good, or bad?
Well, neither.
I have my preferences.
But it would be unfair of me to call something good or bad based on that.
As always, I believe what's most important is exploring and discovering yourself.
That's comforting.
I'm kind of afraid of disappointing you in some way or another.
Eh...?
Why me...?
Well, you're always sophisticated with your writing and have the most advice to share.
Is that so...?
...
Yuri thinks for a good minute.
...That must be terrible.
Eh?
For me to have become someone whose opinion is fearsome...
How unlikable of me...
Yuri...
It's not as bad as you're making it sound in your head.
I just meant that I respect your opinion.
I see...
I'm sorry that I always overthink and come to those sorts of conclusions...
I'm just...a little too used to it.
Overthinking?
Being disliked.
Yuri...
What...what am I saying?
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to bring that up...
Let's move on...
Alright...
Do you want to share your poem now?
Okay...
Here.
...
Well done, [player].
You've definitely improved your writing over the course of these few days.
Has my advice been helpful to you?
Yeah... Definitely.
I'm glad...
Sharing our writing like this...
It's a lot more fun and rewarding than I anticipated.
I need to remember to thank Monika...
I think we all felt a little awkward at first.
But now it seems like everyone is enjoying sharing their writing and seeing what others think.
I guess I can't really disagree.
I was afraid this whole thing would be a chore...
But it's a great way for me to spend some personal time with all the girls in the club.
But it's been fun getting to know everyone and their writing.
And I guess doing some writing myself...
Well...
Have you learned anything about yourself, [player]?
Eh?
Well, you know how I like to say that writing is a very personal way to get in touch with yourself...
In the end, it doesn't matter if you're a good writer, or a bad writer.
And even my opinions are just opinions...you know?
...
...Ah.
Decided to try something different today?
I guess so.
Is that good, or bad?
Well, neither.
I have my preferences.
But it would be unfair of me to call something good or bad based on that.
...
[player]...
...This is wonderful.
I can feel the emotion that you poured into it.
Is this the result of trying what I suggested yesterday?
Yeah, I guess so...
You did a good job explaining.
I really wanted to try giving it more feeling.
Yuri visibly swallows.
Even her hands appear sweaty.
I'm not...used to this...
Used to what?
I don't know...!
It's fine, take your time...
Yuri breathes and collects her thoughts.
I know that Yuri likes to think before she speaks, so I offer that patience to her.
Yeah...
Just...being appreciated like this...I guess.
It probably sounds really stupid...
But seeing someone motivated by my writing...
It just makes me...
Really happy...
Are you saying you've never shared your writing before?
Yuri nods.
Really? I don't believe it.
I really only write for myself...
And besides...
...People would just laugh at me!
Do you really think that...?
Again, Yuri nods.
Huh...
Even your close friends?
...
For some reason, Yuri doesn't respond.
Yuri...?
Yuri smiles sadly.
[player], during lunchtime, I eat by myself.
Did you know that?
It's a great time to find a quiet spot and do some reading.
In fact...
I always have some books with me.
You could say I really enjoy reading...
...Well, that's one way to put it, anyway...
But...
Books are so full of amazing and inspiring people.
People you want to fall in love with.
Or people you just know would make a really good friend.
Cheerful people, who always put a smile on your face...
Or deep thinkers, and problem solvers, who discover the mysteries of life.
So when you look at it that way...
I'm surrounded by friends every day...
...You know?
And those friends don't laugh at me...
They don't tease me for spacing out all the time...
They don't make fun of my body type...
And...
...And they don't hate me for acting like a know-it-all!
People...say that about you?
I'm not a know-it-all, [player]!
It's the opposite. I don't know anything!
I don't know how to talk to people.
I don't know how to make people see me as normal.
I don't even know how to make myself happy!
I have all these feelings...
And all I can do with them is read, and write...
But it wasn't until now...
That I started sharing it with you...
...That I really understood what was missing all this time.
But I haven't really done anything...
No...
That's wrong.
Just being patient and respectful...
That's really...important to me.
I know I'm a difficult person, [player]...
I speak too slowly...
I second-guess myself all the time...
I read too deeply into things...
But every time...
You've always treated me just like anyone else.
It's so rare that I feel comfortable with myself when I talk to others...
But that's why every time I talk to you...
...I just feel really happy.
I see...
Well, I treat you how you deserve to be treated, Yuri.
And if other people don't see it that way, then screw them.
I mean, I joined this club hoping I would make friends.
And I would say I've had at least one success.
Wouldn't you?
U-Um...
If you put it that way...
...Yeah...
We really are friends now, aren't we?
Yuri puts her head in her hands.
But this time, she's smiling as she does it.
Do you want to show me your poem?
Yeah.
I do!
Let me get it for you...
...
[player].
Your writing has only improved in these last few days.
Every poem you've shown me has been nothing short of spectacular.
I can really feel the emotions...
I'm a little envious, even...
I don't think it ever came to me this naturally.
Yuri, that's the wrong way to put it.
This never did come naturally to me.
But I've been able to improve so much thanks to you.
You're really the example I was chasing after.
I-Is that so...?
Yuri gently smiles to herself.
This feeling...
I'm so glad...I got the chance to share my writing.
I never thought it would feel like this.
I remember you mentioning that yesterday.
I can't believe that you're so good at something and you've never even shared it with anyone.
It's kind of a shame.
Maybe, but...
It's not like I really...had a choice.
What do you mean...?
Well...
Hi, [player]!
Having a good time so far?
Ah...yeah.
Good! Glad to hear it!
By the way, since you're new and everything...
If you ever have any suggestions for the club, like new activities, or things we can do better...
I'm always listening!
Don't be afraid to bring things up, okay?
Alright...I'll keep that in mind.
Of course I'll be afraid to bring things up.
I'm much better off just going with the flow until I'm more settled in.
Anyway...
Want to share your poem with me?
It's kind of embarrassing, but I guess I have to.
Ahahaha!
Don't worry, [player]!
We're all a little embarrassed today, you know?
But it's that sort of barrier that we'll all learn to get past soon.
Yeah, that's true.
I hand Monika my poem.
...Mhm!
I'm sure I'll end up trying different things a lot.
It could take a while before I feel comfortable doing this.
That's okay!
I'd love to see you try new things.
That's the best way to find the kind of style that suits you.
Everyone else might be a little bit biased toward their own kinds of styles...
But I'll always help you find what suits you the most!
So don't force yourself to write the way everyone else wants you to write.
It's not like you have to worry about impressing them or anything.
Ahaha!
Ahaha...
Anyway, do you want to read my poem now?
Don't worry, I'm not very good...
You sound pretty confident for someone who claims to not be very good.
Well...that's 'cause I have to sound confident.
That doesn't mean I always feel that way, you know?
I see...
Well, let's read it, then.
Hi again, [player]!
How's the writing going?
Alright, I guess...
I'll take that.
As long as it's not going bad!
I'm happy that you're applying yourself.
Maybe soon you'll come up with a masterpiece!
Ahaha, I wouldn't count on that...
You never know!
Want to share what you wrote for today?
Sure... Here you go.
I give my poem to Monika.
...
...Alright!
But anyway...
You want to read my poem now?
I like the way this one turned out, so I hope you do too~
Alright, let's take a look.
Hi [player]~
Have you thought about what you want to submit to perform at the festival?
Well...
Being in this club is one thing, but performing in front of a bunch of people...
...I'll have to give it some more thought.
Okay, no pressure!
But whatever you do, I'm sure it'll turn out great.
It would also make me happy to see.
Ahaha!
Anyway, let's take a look at today's poem!
Sure...
I let Monika take the poem I'm holding in my hands.
...
Anyway...!
I'll share my poem with you now, alright?
Er...
Alright...
I like it, [player]!
Really...?
It's a lot cuter than I expected.
Ahahaha!
Oh jeez...
No, no!
It kind of makes me think of something Natsuki would write.
And she's a good writer, too.
So take that as a compliment!
Ahaha...
If you say so.
Yep!
By any chance have you read anything by Shel Silverstein?
Eh?
Maybe a long time ago...
He's famous for telling all kinds of stories in just a few simple words.
His poems can be funny, endearing, or even sad...
And sometimes they're only a few lines long.
They might even feel like they're written for kids, but if you think about them...
They can express views of the world that would apply to anybody.
I see...
So you're saying that Natsuki is kind of like that?
Sort of.
Maybe she's not an expert...
But you probably won't find much filler in her poems.
They might be easy to write, but they're super challenging to get the meaning through.
So I can see why it would be your kind of poem to explore!
I like this one!
It makes me think of something Sayori would like.
Is that so?
You and Sayori are really good friends, right?
I wouldn't be surprised if you had those sorts of things in common.
Ah, well...
We may be good friends, but Sayori and I are actually really different.
Hmm...
Well, that may be the case.
But maybe there are also some similarities that you wouldn't expect.
The way she talks about you...
It sounds like the two of you really care about each other's well-being.
Even if you show it in different ways, it ends up being more similar than you'd think.
So I think that's the kind of vibe I get when reading your poem.
Hmm...
You sure you're not reading into it too much?
Ahaha! I could be!
Oh gosh, I sound like Yuri...
...But in any case, Sayori's writing has kind of a gentle feel to it.
I can tell that she likes exploring with emotions, like happiness and sadness.
Who knew that someone so happy would enjoy sad things, too?
Yeah... That's totally unexpected.
Well, to each their own~
And you shouldn't be afraid to experiment a little bit, either.
Great job, [player]!
I was going 'Ooh' in my head while reading it.
It's really metaphorical!
I'm not sure why, but I didn't expect you to go for something so deep.
I guess I underestimated you!
It's easiest for me to keep everyone's expectations low.
That way, it always counts when I put in some effort.
Ahaha! That's not very fair!
Well, I guess it worked, anyway.
You know that Yuri likes this kind of writing, right?
Writing that's full of imagery and symbolism.
Unlike Sayori, who likes using simple and direct words to describe happiness and sadness...
Yuri likes it when readers are left to derive their own meaning out of it.
It's very challenging to write like that effectively.
Both allowing people to get something out of it just by feel...
Or letting them deeply analyze all of the nuances.
It can take years of practice, which I'm assuming Yuri has at this point.
I never really asked, though...
I'm sure I'm nowhere near her level yet.
Don't worry so much about that!
You do your own thing.
Just keep exploring, and learn by trying new things!
It's pretty good~
You've been spending some time with Natsuki, haven't you?
You must like her writing style.
Ah, yeah...
I think it's a neat way to tell a story.
Mhm. I don't disagree.
Natsuki's poems may be cute, but they're also meaningful.
I can see why you'd be into the style.
I guess that means you're not as much a fan of Yuri's poems, then?
Ah-- I wouldn't say that...
I kind of like everyone's poems.
That's true, but I'm sure you like some more than others, right?
Like Yuri's use of complex words and symbolism...
Or Sayori's way of expressing happiness or sadness in a more direct way.
You must have some kind of preference, don't you?
Ah, not that it's a contest or anything!
I was just curious, that's all.
It's pretty good~
It makes me think of Sayori, like the other one that you wrote.
You two are like the dynamic duo!
Ahaha... That's kind of exaggerating it.
Yeah, probably.
But you do spend a lot of time with her even in this club, don't you?
Then again, I don't blame you for being a little shy~
I-I'm not shy, it's just...
Ahaha! I'm just teasing.
I know it takes a bit of time to make friends with everyone.
But Yuri and Natsuki are super interesting people, so don't be afraid to give them their share of time!
And you can talk to me every now and then too...
I'm not, like, unapproachable or anything, am I?
Ah, no, it's nothing like that...
I'm just still getting used to being here, that's all.
Yeah...
I'm sorry if I was putting pressure on you or something!
I really didn't mean it like that.
No, don't worry.
I get what you're saying.
Well, alright~
This one's good!
It feels like you're not only getting more comfortable with your style...
But the imagery is better than the last one I read!
Just wondering, but have you been finding inspiration in Yuri's writing style?
Hmm...
I guess so.
You can't deny that she's talented.
Yeah, totally!
I think her poems are the most...
...Romantic.
That's the best way to describe it.
She's like a totally different person when she picks up a pen...
I noticed that, too.
Or when she's talking about literature, it's like a light turns on inside her.
Mhm!
Sadly, it's hard to get much personal conversation out of her...
Trust me, I've tried...
Who knows what goes on in that head of hers?
I hope you don't mean that in a bad way.
No, of course not!
I just meant that I wish she didn't keep so much to herself...
But still, defending her like that...
You must be pretty into her...
Eh?!
You...completely misunderstood!
Ahaha! Calm down, I'm kidding!
Besides, I'm pretty sure she's already got a boyfriend...
Wait, really?
Yeah. A fictional one, anyway.
Monika kind of whispers that last part to me.
It's just a hunch, but...
...Well, there's not really anything wrong with that!
Oh, well I know...!
I was just saying~
Sticking with the Natsuki style once more, I see~
Hmm...
You really like Natsuki, don't you?
Eh? That's--
Oh, come on, [player].
It's awfully suspicious, you know?
Spending time with her in the clubroom every day...
Pretending to like the manga that she's into...
Y-You know how Natsuki is...!
If I don't indulge her, she'll end up hating me.
Eh?
No, I think you're misunderstanding, [player].
It's not like Natsuki just hates anyone who doesn't give her what she wants.
Yeah, she's assertive, but she's not that selfish...
In fact, I think you're the only one who's indulged her as much as you have.
Is that so...
I kind of knew that, but I just didn't want to admit it.
So, I just need to ask one thing of you...
...Be careful. Please?
Natsuki is kind of unpredictable.
A lot of times, she doesn't even know what she wants.
After all, she's the youngest one here.
She might not know how to handle her own feelings properly.
What I'm saying is...
If something bad happens, then it could end up damaging the club, too...
And you wouldn't do that to me...right?
That's--
I'm not sure how to respond to Monika.
While I care about her and the club, it's also kind of unfair to bring that up.
Well...you're smart.
I'm sure you'll do the right thing.
Monika smiles sweetly.
Ahaha.
It's kind of funny...
How so?
No, not the poem...
I mean, it's funny how your poems and Sayori's poems have been getting more and more similar to each other every day.
I'm surprised you're so in sync with her.
Then again, you've been spending a lot of time together lately, haven't you?
Ah, I guess you could say that...
Although we kind of grew up as best friends, I haven't been seeing as much of her this past year...
But since I joined the club, we've been spending a lot of time together again.
I see, I see~
That reminds me...
About how Sayori's been a little bit off today...
Yeah? Did she tell you something?
Ah...
Well...
[player], you haven't been flirting with her, have you?
O-Of course not!
I've been treating her like I always do.
Alright.
Just making sure~
I know how much you care about her...
It would be terrible if something bad happened to her, so keep an eye on her.
Sayori's been acting so much happier ever since you joined the club.
What could have happened all of a sudden...?
...
...Well, never mind.
This really isn't the time to be talking about this...
Your style's gotten so refined, [player].
Yuri's been teaching you a lot of things, hasn't she?
Well--
I guess so.
Yeah... I've been noticing how much time you spend with her.
I think I've heard her say more words these past couple days than she's talked in the whole year.
Not sure how you did it, but that's pretty impressive...
Well, she just needs some patience and a way to talk about all the things in her head, I guess...
I'm still getting the hang of it, myself.
Hm...
You're certainly putting in a lot of effort.
You must really like her.
Eh? That's--
Ahaha!
It's awfully suspicious, you know?
Spending time with her in the clubroom every day...
Reading that edgy novel with her...
Well--!
I just...feel bad that she has a hard time socializing.
It makes me want to make sure she doesn't spend all her time alone.
Besides, the novel isn't too bad either, you know...
Alright, alright~
I get you.
Just...be careful, alright?
I know that Yuri isn't used to opening herself up...
So if something bad happens while she's vulnerable...
Then it could be really hard for her.
Her books aren't a total escape from reality.
They're just a bandage.
You say that like I'm going to hurt her...
Sorry, I didn't really mean that~
If anything, she might accidentally hurt herself.
Ahaha...
It doesn't really matter what it's about.
My mind has been a little hyperactive lately, so I had to take it out on your pen.
Ah--
That is...a-a pen fell out of your backpack yesterday, so I took it home for safekeeping and...
I, um...
I just...really like...the way...that it writes.
So I wrote this...poem...with it.
And now you're touching it...
Ahaha.
I-I'm okay!!
What did I just...
...
...Can we pretend this conversation never happened?
You can keep the poem, though...
Do you like it??
I wrote it for you!
In case you couldn't tell, the poem is about [gtext]
More importantly, I've endowed it with my scent.
See, aren't I the most thoughtful person in the club?
...
I...
I think I'm...going to vomit.
Not bad, right?
It's quite a bit longer than yesterday's.
Yesterday's was way too short...
I was just warming up!
I hope you didn't think that was the best I could do.
No, of course not...
Anyway, the message is pretty straightforward in this poem.
I doubt I have to explain it.
Like, anyone would agree that the subject of this poem is an ignorant jerk...
Everyone has some kind of weird hobby, or a guilty pleasure.
Something that you're afraid if people find out, they'd make fun of you or think less of you.
...But that just makes people stupid!
Who cares what someone likes, as long as they're not hurting anyone, and it makes them happy?
I think people really need to learn to respect others for liking weird things...
...Such as two of the girls in this very club, whom I respectfully won't name.
Kind of ironic that even in my one place of comfort, I can't even have people respect me...
...Jeez, now you're making me complain too much!
{i}(...What did I do?){/i}
For what it's worth, I respect you...
Well--
I guess thanks...
...But it's kind of obvious that you 'respect' Yuri more, so...
Whatever... We're done sharing, so you can leave now.
[player]...
Why didn't you come read with me today?
I was waiting for you.
I was waiting for a long time.
It was the only thing I had to look forward to today.
Why did you ruin it?
Do you like Yuri more?
I think you're better off not associating with her.
Are you listening to me?
Yuri is a sick freak.
That should be obvious by now.
So just play with me instead.
Okay?
You don't hate me, [player], do you?
Do you hate me?
Do you want to make me go home crying?
The club is the only place I feel safe.
Don't ruin that for me.
Don't ruin it.
Please.
Just stop talking to Yuri.
Play with me instead.
It's all I have...
Play with me.
PLAY WITH ME!!!
I changed my mind.
Ignore everything you just read.
There's no point in trying to do anything.
It's Yuri's own fault that she's so unlikable.
Can you hear me, [player]?
If you would just spend more time with Monika, all these problems would go away.
Yuri and I are too messed up for someone as wonderful as you.
Just think of Monika from now on.
Just Monika.
Just Monika.
Sorry, I know it's kind of abstract.
I'm just trying to...um...
Well, never mind.
There's no point in explaining.
Anyway...
Here's Monika's Writing Tip of the Day!
Sometimes you'll find yourself facing a difficult decision...
When that happens, don't forget to save your game!
You never know when...um...
...Who am I talking to?
Can you hear me?
Tell me you can hear me.
Anything.
...That's my advice for today!
Thanks for listening~
Jeez! That really startled me!{fast}
Um...
Well, I guess I kinda messed up at, uh... 'writing' this poem.
I was just trying to...
...Never mind.
Let's just move on...
...
Yeah, just as I thought...
...?
[player], come on.
I'm not stupid.
I know how much time you've been spending with Yuri...
It's obvious that you care more about impressing her than trying to improve your writing.
To put it bluntly, it's kind of pathetic.
Why are you even in this club, [player]?
Honestly...
I thought getting a new member would help everyone get more involved together.
Not exclude each other even more.
This is such a stupid activity anyway...
...Look, I'm not in a good mood today, and I just really don't feel like talking right now.
Please go away.
...Hm.
I liked your last one better.
Eh? Really?
Well yeah. I can tell you were a little more daring with this one.
But you're really not good enough for that yet. It fell flat.
That may be true, but I just wanted to try something different.
I'm still figuring this all out.
...Hm.
Well, I can admit that it's better than the last one.
It's nice to see that you're putting in some effort.
That's good...
Just make sure you find a little bit of influence from everyone.
I think you're at least being influenced by Yuri a little bit, aren't you?
I mean, I know you've been, like...
Spending some time with her, or whatever...
But you know, Monika and I are just as good as her!
A-At poems, I mean!
So you should really try to learn something, or you'll never get better!
Here's the one I wrote...
I'll make sure you learn something from it.
...Hm.
Well, it's not really any worse than your last one.
But I can't really say it's any better, either.
Phew...
Huh? 'Phew' what?
Ah... Well anything that isn't a trainwreck, I'll take as a win.
And I get the feeling you're probably the most critical.
H-Hey! What makes you--
{i}(Wait, maybe that was a compliment...?){/i}
A-Ahah! Glad to see someone recognizes my experience!
Well then, keep practicing and maybe you'll be as good as me someday!
That's...uh...
Something tells me Natsuki completely missed the point.
...Hm.
Well, it's not terrible.
But it's pretty disappointing after your last one.
Then again, if this one was as good as your last one, I would be completely pissed.
Well, I guess I wanted to try something a little different this time.
Fair enough. You're still new to this, so I wouldn't expect you to find your style right away.
I mean, everyone in the club writes really differently from each other...
Maybe you'll find a little influence from all of us.
For instance...
I noticed that you were spending some time with Yuri today...
Not that I care who you spend your time with.
After all, I was taught never to expect anything from anybody.
So it's not like I was waiting for you, or anything.
Still, you should at least look over my poem...
You'll probably be able to learn something from it.
I'm not going to read another one of your Yuri suck-up poems.
But I'm still going to make you read mine.
There's a reason.
I really wish I didn't have to do this...
But unfortunately I don't have much of a choice.
Just...read it carefully, okay?
Then you can go away.
...
...Meh.
I guess you really haven't learned anything after all.
Honestly, I don't know why I got my hopes up in the first place.
This is clearly Yuri's influence...
I didn't realize you were so impressionable.
Spending all this time with her in the club...
Now trying to write like her...
This is stupid.
At least Monika appreciates my writing...
...Ugh.
Okay...I guess I'm going to share my poem with you now.
I really hate that I have to do this.
But unfortunately I don't have much of a choice.
Just...read it carefully, okay?
Then you can go away.
...
Oh, man.
This is seriously a step backwards.
Eh?
I liked your last two way better than this one.
...
...This one's alright.
Alright?
Yeah, it's at least better than yesterday's.
I still can't really tell how much you actually care about writing, but either way, you're doing alright.
Even though you're not really spending time with anyone but Yuri...
I still think it's nice to have activities that we all participate in.
So you better keep working hard!
I mean...
I know I'm not President or Vice President or anything...
But that doesn't mean you can let me down, okay?
So, at least read mine too for now.
But just to be clear...
This poem...means a lot to me.
So read it carefully, okay?
...
...This one's alright.
Alright?
Well, yeah.
About as good as yesterday's, anyway.
What?
You gave your poem to Yuri?
Gross!
What is with you two?
Hmph...
It's not like I wanted to read it anyway.
It's just pissing me off a little bit that you didn't even think to show me at all.
...Ugh.
Okay...I guess I'm going to share my poem with you anyway.
I really hate that I have to do this.
But unfortunately I don't have much of a choice.
Just...read it carefully, okay?
Then you can go away.
I've been waiting for this...
Let's see what you've written for today.
...
Yuri smiles and takes a deep breath.
I like just holding it.
...?
Ah, I mean--
The poem turned out good!
It's, ah...
...Well, there are some things that you could work on...
But that doesn't really matter.
It feels like anything written by you is a treasure.
Ahaha...
That came out a little awkward...
L-Let's move on...
Here's the poem I wrote.
You don't have to like it or anything...
I've been waiting for this...
Let's see what you've written for today.
...
......
Yuri stares at the poem with a surprised expression on her face.
Do you...like it?
[player]...
...How did you pick up on this so quickly?
Just yesterday, I was telling you the kind of techniques worth practicing...
Maybe that's why...
You did a good job explaining.
I really wanted to try giving it more imagery.
Yuri visibly swallows.
Even her hands appear sweaty.
A-Ah...
That makes me so happy...
It's so amazing to feel like I'm valued, [player]!
Everything that you write is a treasure to me.
My heart pounds just holding it...
Ahaha...
I want to write a poem about this feeling...
Is that bad, [player]?
I'm not being weird, right?
I-I'm having a harder time than usual at concealing my emotions...
I'm kind of embarrassed.
But right now, I just want you to read my poem, too.
Okay?
I've been waiting for this...
Let's see what you've written for today.
...
......
Yuri stares at the poem with a surprised expression on her face.
Do you...like it?
[player]...
This one might even be better than yesterday's...
...How did you even pick up on this so quickly?
Finally...
Ahaha...
Yuri holds my poem to her face and takes a deep breath.
I love it.
I love everything about it.
[player], I want to take this home.
Will you let me keep it?
Please?
Sure, I don't care...
Ahaha.
You're too nice to me, [player]...
I've never met anyone as nice as you.
I could die...
N-Not really, but--!
I just don't know how to describe it.
It's okay to be feeling this way, right?
It's not bad, right?
Yuri holds my poem to her chest.
I'm going to take this home with me and keep it in my room.
I hope that it makes you feel good when you think about me having it.
I'll take good care of it!
I'll even touch myself while reading it over and over.
I'll give myself paper cuts so your skin oil enters my bloodstream.
Ahahahahaha.
You can have my poem too.
Besides, after you read it, I know you're really going to want to keep it.
Here, take it. I can't wait any longer.
Hurry! Read it!
Hi, [player]!
Having a good time so far?
Ah...yeah.
Good! Glad to hear it!
By the way, since you're new and everything...
If you ever have any suggestions for the club, like new activities, or things we can do better...
I'm always listening!
Don't be afraid to bring things up, okay?
Alright...I'll keep that in mind.
Of course I'll be afraid to bring things up.
I'm much better off just going with the flow until I'm more settled in.
Anyway...
Want to share your poem with me?
It's kind of embarrassing, but I guess I have to.
Ahahaha!
Don't worry, [player]!
We're all a little embarrassed today, you know?
But it's that sort of barrier that we'll all learn to get past soon.
Yeah, that's true.
I hand Monika my poem.
...Mhm!
Anyway, do you want to read my poem now?
Don't worry, I'm not very good...
You sound pretty confident for someone who claims to not be very good.
Well...that's 'cause I have to sound confident.
That doesn't mean I always feel that way, you know?
I see...
Well, let's read it, then.
Hi again, [player]!
How's the writing going?
Alright, I guess...
I'll take that.
As long as it's not going bad!
I'm happy that you're applying yourself.
Maybe soon you'll come up with a masterpiece!
Ahaha, I wouldn't count on that...
You never know!
Want to share what you wrote for today?
Sure... Here you go.
I give my poem to Monika.
...
...Alright!
But anyway...
You want to read my poem now?
I like the way this one turned out, so I hope you do too~
Anyway...
I guess we won't worry about your poem...
Yuri should have at least had the courtesy of letting you finish sharing it before taking it.
...Well, whatever.
If it makes her happy, I won't stop her.
As for mine...
I worked really...really hard on this poem, so...
I hope that it's, uh, effective.
Here goes...
I like it, [player]!
Really...?
It's a lot cuter than I expected.
Ahahaha!
Oh jeez...
No, no!
It kind of makes me think of something Natsuki would write.
And she's a good writer, too.
So take that as a compliment!
Ahaha...
If you say so.
Yep!
If you're interested in Natsuki, then always keep a snack on you.
She'll cling to you like a puppy.
Ahaha!
Natsuki's dad doesn't give her lunch money or leave her any food in the house, so she's in a fussy mood pretty often...
But sometimes she just loses all of her strength and shuts down.
Like earlier.
This is just a guess, but I think she's so small because her malnutrition is interfering with her adolescent growth...
...But hey, some guys are into petite girls too, you know?
Sorry...just trying to look at the bright side!
Great job, [player]!
I was going 'Ooh' in my head while reading it.
It's really metaphorical!
I'm not sure why, but I didn't expect you to go for something so deep.
I guess I underestimated you!
It's easiest for me to keep everyone's expectations low.
That way, it always counts when I put in some effort.
Ahaha! That's not very fair!
Well, I guess it worked, anyway.
You know that Yuri likes this kind of writing, right?
Writing that's full of imagery and symbolism.
Sometimes I feel like Yuri's mind is just totally detached from reality.
I don't mean that like it's a bad thing, though.
But sometimes I get the impression that she's just totally given up on people.
She spends so much time in her own head that it's probably a much more interesting place for her...
But that's why she gets so happy when you treat her with a lot of kindness.
I don't think she's used to being indulged like that.
She must be really starved for social interaction, so don't blame her for coming on a little strongly.
Like earlier...
I think if she gets too stimulated, she ends up withdrawing and looking for alone time.
Suddenly, the door opens.
Yuri!
I'm back...
Did I miss anything?
Not really...
Well, we all started sharing our poems with each other.
Eh?
Already?
I-I'm sorry for being late...
No need to apologize!
We still have plenty of time, so I'm more glad that you took all the time you needed.
Alright...
Thanks, Monika.
I suppose I should go get my poem now.
[player], I think you saw something earlier that you weren't supposed to see.
I didn't want to have to tell you this, but I don't think I have a choice.
It's getting kind of dangerous for you to spend so much time with Yuri.
I don't know why, but she seems pretty easily excitable when she's around you...
Which shouldn't be a problem in itself.
But when Yuri gets too excited, she finds a place to hide and starts cutting herself with a pocket knife.
Isn't that kind of messed up?
She even brings a different one to school every day, like she has a collection or something...
I mean, it's definitely not because she's depressed or anything like that!
I think she just gets some kind of high from it.
It might even be, like, a sexual thing...
But the point is, you've kind of been enabling her.
I'm not saying it's your fault, though!
But I guess that's why I had to explain it all to you...
So I think if you keep your distance, that would probably be best for her.
While you're at it, don't be shy to spend a little more time with me...
To put it lightly, I at least have it together in the head...and I know how to treat my club members.
Don't say I didn't warn you, [player].
End of demo
Deleting save data...{nw}
This game is not suitable for children or those who are easily disturbed.
Individuals suffering from anxiety or depression may not have a safe experience playing this game. For content warnings, please visit: http://ddlc.moe/warning.html
The save file could not be loaded.
Are you trying to cheat?
You're so funny.
You're so funny, [persistent.playername].
The game cannot be run because you are trying to run it from a read-only location.
Please copy the DDLC application to your desktop or other accessible location and try again.
